Title #1: Facile preparation and enhanced microwave absorption properties of core-shell composite spheres composited of Ni cores and TiO2 shells.
PMID: 25745675
Authors: Biao B. Zhao, Gang G. Shao, Bingbing B. Fan, Wanyu W. Zhao, Yajun Y. Xie, Rui R. Zhang
Abstract: Core-shell microspheres with Ni cores and two phases of TiO2 (anatase, rutile) shells have been successfully synthesized. The crystal structure, morphology and microwave absorption properties of the as-prepared composites were analyzed by X-ray diffraction, field-emission scanning electron microscopy, energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and vector network analysis. The core-shell rutile TiO2-coated Ni exhibits better antioxidation ability than that of pure Ni due to the presence of the rutile TiO2 shell, which is confirmed by the thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA). In comparison with bare Ni, these two composites show better microwave absorption properties. The minimum reflection loss (RL) is -38.0 dB at 11.1 GHz with a thickness of only 1.8 mm for the Ni@TiO2 (rutile) composite. The enhanced absorption capability arises from the efficient complementarities between the magnetic loss and dielectric loss, multiple interfacial polarization, high thermal conductivity of rutile TiO2 and microwave attenuation constant. These results show that the thin high-efficiency rutile TiO2-coated Ni composite is a great potential microwave absorbing material for practical applications.


Title #2: Kinetics of aggregation in liquids with dispersed nanoparticles.
PMID: 25745674
Authors: Wojciech W. Jeżewski
Abstract: The process of attaching molecules of liquid media by dispersed nanoparticles is modeled and numerically studied. The growth rate of the resulting nanoparticle-induced aggregates is determined by assuming the preferential attachment rule according to which the effectiveness of the connection of a new molecular unit to aggregates is determined by their size. It is shown that, depending on a specific functional form of the growth rate, the size distribution of aggregates can display very different shapes, including various multimodal structures. This can explain experimentally obtained complex size distributions of inhomogeneous aggregates appearing as a consequence of the adsorption of molecules by nanoparticles or as a consequence of the self-assembling of active dispersants on surfaces of nanoparticles. The time evolution and the stationarity of the size distribution are also analyzed, gaining an insight into the long-time behavior of systems with dispersed nanoparticles.


Title #3: Computational investigations of the thermodynamic properties of size-selected water and Ar-water clusters: high-pressure transitions.
PMID: 25745673
Authors: Aleš A. Vítek, D J DJ. Arismendi-Arrieta, R. R. Rodríguez-Cantano, R. R. Prosmiti, P. P. Villarreal, R. R. Kalus, G. G. Delgado-Barrio
Abstract: Classical parallel-tempering Monte Carlo simulations in the isothermal-isobaric ensemble were carried out for the (H2O)20 and Ar(H2O)20 clusters, over a wide range of temperatures (30-1000 K) and pressures (3 kPa-10 GPa) in order to study their thermodynamic properties and structural changes. The TIP4P/ice water model is employed for the water-water interactions, while both semiempirical and ab initio-based potentials are used to model the interaction between the rare-gas atoms and the water molecules. Temperature-pressure phase diagrams for these cluster systems were constructed by employing a two-dimensional multiple-histogram method. Structural changes were detected by analyzing the heat capacity landscape and the Pearson correlation coefficient profile for the interaction energy and volume. Those at high pressure correspond to solid-to-solid transitions and are found to be related to clathrate-like cages around the Ar atom. It is also shown that the formation and thermodynamic stability of such structures are determined by the intermolecular interaction between the rare-gas atoms and the host water molecules.


Title #4: An orthogonal C-H borylation - cross-coupling strategy for the preparation of tetrasubstituted "A2B2"-chrysene derivatives with tuneable photophysical properties.
PMID: 25745672
Authors: K W J KW. Heard, J J JJ. Morrison, L. L. Weston, C H CH. Lo, L. L. Pirvu, J. J. Raftery, M S MS. Little, J J W JJ. McDouall, S G SG. Yeates, P. P. Quayle
Abstract: The regioselective, orthogonal functionalisation of 4,10-dichlorochrysene enables the synthesis of a variety of 2,8,4,10-"A2B2"-tetrasubstituted chrysenes. Such compounds exhibit broadened UV-vis absorption spectra, decreased band gap and higher HOMO levels compared to the parent chrysene.


Title #5: Exploring Mn-O bonding in the context of an electronically flexible secondary coordination sphere: synthesis of a Mn(iii)-oxo.
PMID: 25745671
Authors: Yun Ji YJ. Park, Ellen M EM. Matson, Mark J MJ. Nilges, Alison R AR. Fout
Abstract: Complexes containing manganese-oxygen bonds have been implicated in a variety of biological and synthetic processes. Herein, we describe the synthesis of a family of stable, high-spin trigonal bipyramidal manganese complexes of the electronically flexible ligand tris(5-cyclohexylimino-pyrrol-2-ylmethyl)amine [H3N(pi(Cy))3] featuring apical water, hydroxyl, and oxo ligands. Terminal Mn(III)-O complexes are rare and the formation of this species was achieved from a variety of reagents including O2, PhIO and NO2(-). Described herein is the preparation, structural and electronic properties of these manganese complexes.


Title #6: Real-world carbon nanoparticle exposures induce brain and gonadal alterations in zebrafish (Danio rerio) as determined by biospectroscopy techniques.
PMID: 25745670
Authors: Junyi J. Li, Guang-Guo GG. Ying, Kevin C KC. Jones, Francis L FL. Martin
Abstract: Carbon-based nanoparticles (CNPs) have emerged as novel man-made materials with diverse applications, which may present significant risks to organisms. To bridge the gap in our knowledge of nanotoxicology, a number of in vitro or in vivo studies have been carried out. However, toxicity data remains limited. Herein, we employed a biospectroscopy approach to assess CNP-induced effects in zebrafish (Danio rerio). Zebrafish were exposed to Fullerene (C60), long or short multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs), or single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) for 21 days at two concentrations: 0.1 mg L(-1) or 0.001 mg L(-1). Following exposure, the brain, gills, gonads and liver from zebrafish were interrogated by attenuated total reflection Fourier-transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) or Raman spectroscopy. Computational analysis was then applied to the acquired infrared (IR) spectra, and distinct biochemical segregations between the exposed tissues vs. control were observed with spectral biomarkers of alterations identified. In addition, lipid-to-protein ratios in all four tissues were calculated by the IR spectra; unsaturated lipid levels in brain and gonad were assessed by Raman spectroscopy. Marked lipid alterations were observed. These findings show that biospectroscopy approaches have the potential to detect CNP-induced biochemical alterations in zebrafish.


Title #7: Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasia- a challenging diagnosis in a patient with paraneoplastic rheumatoid arthritis. Case report.
PMID: 25745669
Authors: Ioana I. Grigorescu, Andrei A. Cismaru, Romeo R. Chira, Adrian A. Catinean, Dan Lucian DL. Dumitrascu
Abstract: Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasias (IPMNs) of the pancreas are potentially malignant tumors, and associated also with extrapancreatic carcinomas. We present the case of a 80 year old man with IPMN and late onset of rheumatoid arthritis. The particularity of this case is the discordance between the clinical picture and the imaging worrisome features, together with the surgery-requiring mixed-type of IPMN, despite the late possible paraneoplastic onset of rheumatoid arthritis.


Title #8: Cystic schwannoma of the axillary region: imaging findings of a rare disease. Case report.
PMID: 25745668
Authors: Idil Gunes IG. Tatar, Kerim Bora KB. Yilmaz, Ataturker A. Arikok, Bahattin B. Bayar, Melih M. Akinci, Sener S. Balas, Zafer Z. Ergul, Onur O. Ergun, Baki B. Hekimoglu
Abstract: Schwannomas are well capsulated, benign, and slowly growing tumors which originate from Schwann cells of peripheral nerve sheath. The incidence of schwannomanas in the axillary region is not common. This rarity causes misdiagnosis at the radiological evaluation. In this case we present the imaging and histopathological findings of a cystic schwannoma located in the axillary fossa of a 47-year-old female patient mimicking complex cyst, lymphadenopathy or hydatid cyst in radiological evaluation. Although lymphadenopathy, lymphatic malformation, lipoma, cyst, hidradenitis suppurativa or dermatoﬁbroma are the most frequent lesions to be considered, peripheral nerve sheath should also be kept in mind in the differential diagnosis of axillary masses.


Title #9: Cardiac amyloidosis with gastrointestinal involvement: a case report.
PMID: 25745667
Authors: Alina A. Tantau, Ioan I. Avram, Angela A. Cozma, Dorel D. Sampelean
Abstract: Familial amyloidosis is a rare type of amyloidosis, difficult to diagnose. We present the case of a woman with chronic heart failure. Low ejection fraction and concentric left ventricle hypertrophy with granular sparkling were seen by echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. Based on myocardial biopsy and genetic tests, the diagnosis of transthyretin familial amyloidosis, secondary to the Glu54Gln gene mutation, was made. The presentation contains the diagnostic algorithm used in the case of our patient, including clinical, biochemical, imaging, histological and genetic examinations, for the purpose of a complete diagnosis.


Title #10: Ultrasound and CT imaging features in a patient with salivary duct carcinoma of the parotid gland: a case report with literature review.
PMID: 25745666
Authors: Diana Ioana DI. Fenesan, Manuela M. Lenghel, Grigore G. Băciuţ, Sergiu S. Văcăraş, Carolina C. Botar-Jid, Dan D. Vasilescu, Sorin Marian SM. Dudea
Abstract: The aim of this paper was to present the ultrasound (US) and computed tomography (CT) appearance of a patient with salivary duct carcinoma of the parotid gland. US showed a voluminous mass of the parotid gland, with multiple calcifications. Furthermore, it revealed regional multiple lymph nodes with malignant characters. Sonoelastography of the lesion and lymph nodes detected increased rigidity. Contrast enhanced CT scan of the neck completed the data description regarding the mass expansion and invasion of surrounding tissues. US and CT imaging features played a key role in establishing the malignant character of the mass and lymph nodes.


Title #11: Prenatal diagnosis of congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS). Five case report.
PMID: 25745665
Authors: Halil H. Aslan, Ali A. Ekiz, Deniz Kanber DK. Acar, Burchan B. Aydiner, Basak B. Kaya, Salim S. Sezer
Abstract: Congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS) is an extremely rare life-threatening condition. Laryngeal atresia appears to be the most frequent cause. Generally the diagnosis is made with severely enlarged and highly echogenic lungs and additional ultrasound findings. The prognosis of the affected infants is often poor. Five cases are reported here that were diagnosed in a tertiary center between 2008 and 2014.


Title #12: Assessment of fetal malformations in the first trimester of pregnancy by three-dimensional ultrasonography in the rendering mode. Pictorial essay.
PMID: 25745664
Authors: E. E. Araujo Júnior, Liliam Cristine LC. Rolo, Gabriele G. Tonni, Sina S. Haeri, Rodrigo R. Ruano
Abstract: We present our experience in the contribution of three-dimensional ultrasonography, using the rendering mode, to the prenatal diagnosis of congenital anomalies including neurological defects (acrania/anencephaly, encephalocele, holoprosencephaly), facial anomalies (cyclopia and facial clefts), abdominal wall defects (omphalocele and gastroschisis) and defects of extremities (fetal muscle-skeletal dysplasias). Three-dimensional ultrasonography may contribute to improve the prenatal diagnosis with further revision of the fetal images, allowing a better prenatal counsel to the parents.


Title #13: Ultrasonographic anatomy of head and neck - a pictorial for the ENT specialist.
PMID: 25745663
Authors: Adrian A. Costache, Mihai M. Dumitru, Ion I. Anghel, Romica R. Cergan, Alina Georgiana AG. Anghel, Codrut C. Sarafoleanu
Abstract: An increased pressure on ENT departments has evolved as head and neck pathology is showing a higher incidence and prevalence. Therefore, the ENT specialist should develop good skills in ultrasonographic examination of patients with head and neck masses. The aim of this paper is to enable the ENT specialist to identify anatomical landmarks on ultrasonographic images in order to expedite the diagnosis with a higher degree of certainty. We describe the steps for a proper ultrasound examination of the patient. We illustrate the following anatomical areas: submandibular gland, thyroid gland, parathyroid glands, oropharinx, larynx, parotid glands, etc. Moreover we emphasize the differential diagnosis that should be taken into account when examining pathology in these regions. Ultrasonographic examination of head and neck pathology is cost efficient, non irradiating and permits fast follow up with serial examination of the lesions. Furthermore one can perform an initial TNM staging of the case prior to other expensive imaging studies such as CT and MRI. We hope to raise the awareness of fellow ENT specialists in performing ultrasonography as future developments such as elastography and CEUS will increase the specificity and sensitivity of this diagnostic method.


Title #14: Is ultrasound changing the way we understand rheumatology? Including ultrasound examination in the classification criteria of polymyalgia rheumatica and gout.
PMID: 25745662
Authors: Catalin C. Codreanu, Luminita L. Enache
Abstract: Ultrasonography (US) is widely used in the diagnosis of rheumatic conditions, and its value for the classification criteria of rheumatic diseases has been recently suggested. According to the EULAR/ACR provisional criteria for polymyalgia rheumatica, adding US to the clinical and serological features will significantly improve the sensitivity of proposed criteria. The ability of high resolution US to detect crystalline deposits of monosodium urate in joints and soft tissues is well recognized. For the first time, the new 2014 ACR/EULAR set of proposed criteria for gout includes advanced imaging techniques for the detection of disease: US and dual-energy computed tomography. Due to low costs and affordability, use of US evaluation for patients with suspected gout will increase both specificity and sensibility of classification criteria. The recent inclusion of US in the classification criteria of various rheumatic diseases, such as PMR and gout, implies that this imaging technique is not only useful as a valued diagnostic tool for individual cases, but also on a larger scale, it will improve doctors' ability to classify diseases. Its use is thus changing our understanding of rheumatic diseases allowing further advances in research and clinical practice.


Title #15: Ultrasound elastography in thyroid disease.
PMID: 25745661
Authors: Sorin M SM. Dudea, Carolina C. Botar-Jid
Abstract: Thyroid elastography has become, lately, one of the main focuses in thyroid imaging. With more than one hundred papers published on this subject, the core of accumulated knowledge justifies the need for a comprehensive review on the topic. The paper presents the various elastographic techniques used for thyroid assessment. Both strain and shear wave elastography, with all their variants, are discussed. Thereafter the paper proceeds to a detailed description of the technical peculiarities, diagnostic value, limitations and pitfalls for each technique. Although the main accent is placed on thyroid nodules, the applications of elastography in other thyroid disease, diffuse or focal, are also presented. The results of the available metaanalyses are reviewed and the proven value of the technique is highlighted. Still unanswered questions and directions for future research are emphasized, whenever appropriate.


Title #16: Oral and I.V. Contrast Enhanced Ultrasonography of the digestive tract - a useful completion of the B-mode examination: a literature review and an exhaustive illustration through images.
PMID: 25745660
Authors: Cristian C. Neciu, Radu R. Badea, Liliana L. Chiorean, Alexandru Florin AF. Badea, Iulian I. Opincariu
Abstract: Contrast enhanced ultrasonography, using i.v. and/or oral/rectal contrast agents, represents a technical development of the US method, which has proved its applicability in the qualitative and quantitative assessment of the normal and pathological circulatory bed, as well as of the digestive lumen. The use of microbubbles and harmonics opens a new horizon in the detection and characterization of the inflammatory and tumoral conditions of the digestive tract. The interpretation of the data requires corroboration with the grey scale aspect of the examined lesion/area, as well as with the clinical context of the case and the results of other diagnosis techniques. The purpose of this paper is to review the main applications of CEUS in digestive tract pathology by analyzing the significant literature and guidelines in the light of our personal experience and demonstrating it through suggestive images.


Title #17: Sonoelastographıc assessment of the age-related changes of the Achilles tendon.
PMID: 25745659
Authors: Aynur A. Turan, Mehmet Akif MA. Teber, Zeynep Ilerisoy ZI. Yakut, Havva Akmaz HA. Unlu, Baki B. Hekimoglu
Abstract: Tendons are crucial for optimal muscle force transfer and subject to changes with aging which may impair functional ability of elderly individuals. Achilles is the largest and the strongest tendon in the body; therefore it is an excellent site for the radiologic investigation of aging of tendons. Sonoelastography (SE) is a new ultrasound-based imaging technique that provides information on elastic properties and stiffness of tissues. The aim of our study was to investigate the age-related alterations in Achilles tendons using SE.


Title #18: Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse (ARFI) elastography quantification of muscle stiffness over a course of gradual isometric contractions: a preliminary study.
PMID: 25745658
Authors: Alpaslan A. Yavuz, Aydın A. Bora, Mehmet Deniz MD. Bulut, Abdussamet A. Batur, Aysel A. Milanlioglu, Cemil C. Göya, Cagatay C. Andic
Abstract: To evaluate the feasibility of quantitative analysis of muscle stiffness by Acoustic Radiation Forced Impulse (ARFI) elastography over a course of graduate isometric voluntary contractions.


Title #19: The evaluation of the retrobulbar orbital fat tissue and optic nerve with strain ratio elastography.
PMID: 25745657
Authors: Murat M. Vural, Dilek D. Acar, Uğur U. Toprak, Mehmet Numan MN. Alp, Özlem Gürbüz ÖG. Köz, Bige B. Sayın, Gizem Kuşçuoğlu GK. Abat
Abstract: The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic performance of strain ratio elastography in the assessment of retrobulbar orbital fat tissue.


Title #20: Radiologic findings of idiopathic granulomatous mastitis.
PMID: 25745656
Authors: Seyma S. Yildiz, Ayse A. Aralasmak, Huseyin H. Kadioglu, Huseyin H. Toprak, Huseyin H. Yetis, Zuhal Z. Gucin, Ercan E. Kocakoc
Abstract: To describe the radiological findings of idiopathic granulomatous mastitis (IGM).


Title #21: The utility of 40 MHz periodontal ultrasonography in the assessment of gingival inflammation evolution following professional teeth cleaning.
PMID: 25745655
Authors: Radu R. Chifor, Mindra Eugenia ME. Badea, Stefan Cristian SC. Vesa, Ioana I. Chifor
Abstract: The AIM of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of 40 MHz periodontal ultrasonography in the assessment of gingival inflammation, following professional teeth cleaning.


Title #22: The use of ultrasonography in infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis: does the patient's age and weight affect pyloric size and pyloric ratio?
PMID: 25745654
Authors: Ümit Yaşar ÜY. Ayaz, Mehmet Ercüment ME. Döğen, Alper A. Dilli, Sevin S. Ayaz, Arman A. Api
Abstract: We aimed to obtain pyloric measurements of our patients with infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis (IHPS) using ultrasonography (US) and to evaluate the correlations between age, weight and pyloric size, pyloric ratio (PR).


Title #23: A comparison between gastroesophagheal ultrasonography vs. barium swallow in determining the pattern of gastroesophageal reflux in a pediatric population.
PMID: 25745653
Authors: Alireza A. Khatami, Mohammad Mahdi MM. Allameh, Makhtoom M. Shahnazi, Azadeh A. Kiumarsi, Ali A. Tajik
Abstract: Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is one of the most common gastrointestinal pathology in infants and young children. Ultrasonography (US) has been considered to be a reliable diagnostic tool for GERD but the severity of GERD and the clinical implications based on imaging findings has not been evaluated.


Title #24: The value of Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound in the characterization of vascular pattern of solid pancreatic lesions.
PMID: 25745652
Authors: Melania M. Ardelean, Roxana R. Sirli, Ioan I. Sporea, Simona S. Bota, Mirela M. Danila, Alina A. Popescu, Bogdan B. Timar, Roxana R. Buzas, Octavian O. Mazilu, Ovidiu O. Ardelean, Daniel D. Lighezan
Abstract: The AIM of our study was to evaluate the accuracy of CEUS in the characterization of pancreatic solid lesions, considering cross sectional imaging techniques (CE-CT/MRI) as the "gold standard" methods.


Title #25: Anatomical variation of the liver with elongated left lobe may be a trap forthe ultrasound detection of focal liver lesion.
PMID: 25745651
Authors: Size S. Wu, Rong R. Tu, Guangqing G. Liu, Ruixia R. Nan, Ying Y. Guan, Enhai E. Zheng, Yanyan Y. Zhao
Abstract: The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of anatomical variations of the elongated left lobe of the liver on the ultrasound detection of focal liver lesions.


Title #26: Value of hepatic elastography and Doppler indexes for predictions of esophageal varices in liver cirrhosis.
PMID: 25745650
Authors: Adriana A. Bintintan, Romeo Ioan RI. Chira, Vasile Virgil VV. Bintintan, Georgiana Anca GA. Nagy, Maria Roberta MR. Manzat-Saplacan, Monica M. Lupsor-Platon, Horia H. Stefanescu, Maria Magdalena MM. Duma, Simona Doina SD. Valean, Petru Adrian PA. Mircea
Abstract: Non-invasive methods are required to diagnose presence and grading of esophageal varices in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and in this respect we have evaluated the role of transient elastography and abdominal ultrasound parameters.


Title #27: An unusual presentation of lyme neuroborreliosis.
PMID: 25745648
Authors: Laura L. Kitto, Chris C. McKenna
Abstract: Back pain is a common symptom among patients presenting to the acute medical unit. We describe the case of a 55-year-old man with a brief history of fatigue and severe back pain, unresponsive to escalating doses of opiate analgesia. Blood tests and imaging studies were unremarkable and a functional diagnosis was considered. Several weeks into his admission he developed a lower motor neurone facial nerve palsy. He was treated with antibiotics for an incidental finding of a hospital-acquired pneumonia on imaging, which remarkably led to the resolution of his facial palsy and allowed a dramatic reduction in analgesia. This triggered further investigations; identifying Lyme neuroborreliosis as the cause of his symptoms.


Title #28: Pulmonary embolism in a patient with "isolated syncope", a diagnostic challenge.
PMID: 25745647
Authors: Franziska E FE. Blum, Olympia O. Idowu, Sorin S. Danciu
Abstract: Syncope is a recognized presenting symptom in patients with pulmonary embolism (PE), and is more common in older patients and following a large embolus. Isolated syncope, in the absence of dyspnea or tachycardia, is uncommon in this setting, and may be misdiagnosed as cardiac in origin, leading to a delay in appropriate treatment. We present a case which illustrates the importance of consideration of pulmonary embolism in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with syncope, and the value of echocardiography in its diagnosis.


Title #29: Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome on the Acute Medical Unit: A problem-based review.
PMID: 25745646
Authors: Rebeca R. Carter, Kyle K. Petrie, Ashkan A. Sadighi, Hannah H. Skene
Abstract: Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS) is a spectrum of clinical features typically resulting from assisted conception techniques. With 2.35% of all live births in the UK resulting from in-vitro fertilisation (IVF), OHSS is on the rise. Moreover, there has been an increase in the presentation of its complications to GP surgeries and unscheduled acute care services nationwide. This review will discuss signs and symptoms of the increasingly common and potentially fatal complications of OHSS, namely pleural effusion, ascites and thromboembolic events. With such propensity toward critical, life-threatening events it is not only prudent to recognise the population at risk, but also to be aware of the signs, symptoms and complications to expedite treatment and ensure optimum outcome.


Title #30: What is an acute medicine registrar? A qualitative investigation into trainee self-perception and identity.
PMID: 25745645
Authors: Ben B. Lovell
Abstract: This paper explores the experiences and attitudes of acute medicine trainees regarding their own identity and function within hospital medicine, with a view to developing a coherent theoretical framework describing the identity of the acute medicine registrar.


Title #31: Are hospital admissions reduced by Acute Medicine consultant telephone triage of medical referrals?
PMID: 25745644
Authors: Christopher C. Westall, Robert R. Spackman, Channa C. Vasanth, Nicola N. Trepte
Abstract: The NHS in England is facing well-documented pressures related to increasing acute hospital admissions at a time when the acute medical bed-base is shrinking, doctors working patterns are increasingly fragmented and many acute hospital trusts are operating a financial deficit. Novel strategies are required to reduce pressure on the acute medical take. We conducted a prospective cohort study to assess the impact of acute medicine consultant triage of referrals to the acute medical take on the number of acute hospital admissions as compared to a historical control cohort. The introduction of an acute medicine consultant telephone triage service was associated with a 21% reduction in acute medical admissions during whole the study period. True admission avoidance was achieved for 28.5% of referrals triaged by an acute medicine consultant. The greatest benefit was seen for consultant-triage of GP referrals; 43% of all GP referrals resulted in a decision not to admit and in 25% the referral was avoided by giving advice alone. Consultant telephone triage of referrals to the acute medical take substantially reduces the number of acute medical admissions as compared to triage by a trained band 6 or higher nurse coordinator. Our service is cost effective and can be job-planned using 6 full-time equivalent acute medicine consultants. The telephone triage service also provides additional benefits to admission numbers beyond its hours of operation and the general management of the acute medical take.


Title #32: Trends in weighted vital signs and the clinical course of 44,531 acutely ill medical patients while in hospital.
PMID: 25745643
Authors: John J. Kellett, Alan A. Murray, Simon S. Woodworth, Wendy W. Huang
Abstract: little is known about the changes and trends of individual vital signs during the course of acute illness in hospital.


Title #33: The Broad Impact of TOM40 on Neurodegenerative Diseases in Aging.
PMID: 25745640
Authors: William K WK. Gottschalk, Michael W MW. Lutz, Yu Ting YT. He, Ann M AM. Saunders, Daniel K DK. Burns, Allen D AD. Roses, Ornit O. Chiba-Falek
Abstract: Mitochondrial dysfunction is an important factor in the pathogenesis of age-related diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's spectrum disorders. A polymorphism in Translocase of the Outer Mitochondrial Membrane - 40 kD (TOMM40) is associated with risk and age-of onset of late-onset AD, and is the only nuclear- encoded gene identified in genetic studies to date that presumably contributes to LOAD-related mitochondria dysfunction. In this review, we describe the TOM40-mediated mitochondrial protein import mechanism, and discuss the evidence linking TOM40 with Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's (PD) diseases. All but 36 of the >~1,500 mitochondrial proteins are encoded by the nucleus and are synthesized on cytoplasmic ribosomes, and most of these are imported into mitochondria through the TOM complex, of which TOM40 is the central pore, mediating communication between the cytoplasm and the mitochondrial interior. APP enters and obstructs the TOM40 pore, inhibiting import of OXPHOS-related proteins and disrupting the mitochondrial redox balance. Other pathogenic proteins, such as Aβ and alpha-synuclein, readily pass through the pore and cause toxic effects by directly inhibiting mitochondrial enzymes. Healthy mitochondria normally import and degrade the PD-related protein Pink1, but Pink1 exits mitochondria if the membrane potential collapses and initiates Parkin-mediated mitophagy. Under normal circumstances, this process helps clear dysfunctional mitochondria and contributes to cellular health, but PINK1 mutations associated with PD exit mitochondria with intact membrane potentials, disrupting mitochondrial dynamics, leading to pathology. Thus, TOM40 plays a central role in the mitochondrial dysfunction that underlies age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Learning about the factors that control TOM40 levels and activity, and how TOM40, specifically, and the TOM complex, generally, interacts with potentially pathogenic proteins, will provide deeper insights to AD and PD pathogenesis, and possibly new targets for preventative and/or therapeutic treatments.


Title #34: Current Themes in Understanding Children's Emotion Regulation as Developing from within the Parent-Child Relationship.
PMID: 25745639
Authors: Elizabeth J EJ. Kiel, Anne E AE. Kalomiris
Abstract: A large existing literature has established that children's emotion regulation (ER) behaviors and capacities emerge from within the parent-child relationship. This review identified very recently published studies that exemplify contemporary themes in this area of research. Specifically, new research suggests that the influence of fathers, above and beyond that of mothers, becomes more pronounced across development. Further, culture influences how parents socialize emotion and how specific parenting behaviors relate to children's developing ER. Lastly, studies find child-elicited effects, such that children's ER predicts parents' emotion socialization and other relevant behaviors. We suggest several future directions, including understanding the nature of situations that elicit ER patterns, as well as both expanding upon and integrating the areas highlighted in the review.


Title #35: Ets Related Gene and Smad3 Proteins Collaborate to Activate Transforming Growth Factor-Beta Mediated Signaling Pathway in ETS Related Gene-Positive Prostate Cancer Cells.
PMID: 25745638
Authors: Jinbo J. Fang, Huali H. Xu, Chunshu C. Yang, Sharif S. Morsalin, Shubhalaxmi S. Kayarthodi, Kunchala K. Rungsrisuriyachai, Ujwala U. Gunnal, Brittany B. Mckenzie, Veena N VN. Rao, E Shyam P ES. Reddy
Abstract: TGF-β/Smads signaling plays a significant role in the regulation of growth of normal and prostate cancer cells. Smad proteins function as important mediators of intracellular signal transduction of transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). TGF-β signaling pathway is known to regulate cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and play a major role in some human diseases and cancers. Following their phosphorylation by TGF-β receptor-I, Receptor-regulated Smads (including Smad2 and Smad3 proteins) form a heteromeric complex with co-Smad (Smad4) and then translocate into the nucleus where they bind and regulate the expression of target genes. ERG (Ets Related Gene) belongs to the ETS family of transcriptional factors. Chromosomal rearrangement of TMPRSS2 gene and ERG gene has been found in majority of prostate cancers. Over-expression of full length or truncated ERG proteins have been shown to associate with a higher rate of recurrent and unfavorable prognosis of prostate cancer. In order to understand how ERG oncoprotein regulates TGF-β/Smads signaling pathway, we have studied the effect of ERG on TGF-β/Smad3 signaling pathway. In this study, we demonstrate that ERG oncoprotein physically interacts with Smad3 protein and stabilizes phospho-Smad3 protein and thereby enhance TGF-β/Smad3 signaling pathway in prostate cells. Thus, ERG oncoprotein plays an important role in prostate tumorigenesis by using a novel mechanism to activate TGF-β/Smad3 signaling pathway.


Title #36: Rapid depletion of B lymphocytes by ultra-low-dose rituximab delivered intrathecally.
PMID: 25745637
Authors: Anders A. Svenningsson, Joakim J. Bergman, Ann A. Dring, Mattias M. Vågberg, Richard R. Birgander, Thomas T. Lindqvist, Jonathan J. Gilthorpe, Tommy T. Bergenheim
Abstract: We are conducting an open-label phase 1b study on the efficacy of intrathecal (IT) administration of rituximab, provided via an Ommaya reservoir, for the treatment of progressive multiple sclerosis (PMS). The objective of this initial study was to monitor B lymphocytes in peripheral blood (PB) and CSF from the first 10 patients 1 year posttreatment.


Title #37: Complete remission of critical neurohistiocytosis by vemurafenib.
PMID: 25745636
Authors: Philipp P. Euskirchen, Julien J. Haroche, Jean-François JF. Emile, Ralph R. Buchert, Staffan S. Vandersee, Andreas A. Meisel
Abstract: To describe a patient with life-threatening brainstem neurohistiocytosis who recovered completely upon targeted treatment with the V600E mutation-specific BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib.


Title #38: Characterization of B cells in muscle-specific kinase antibody myasthenia gravis.
PMID: 25745635
Authors: Jeffrey T JT. Guptill, John S JS. Yi, Donald B DB. Sanders, Amanda C AC. Guidon, Vern C VC. Juel, Janice M JM. Massey, James F JF. Howard, Flavia F. Scuderi, Emanuela E. Bartoccioni, Amelia A. Evoli, Kent J KJ. Weinhold
Abstract: To characterize B-cell subsets in patients with muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK) myasthenia gravis (MG).


Title #39: Standardized test for anti-Tr/DNER in patients with paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration.
PMID: 25745634
Authors: Christian C. Probst, Lars L. Komorowski, Esther E. de Graaff, Marleen M. van Coevorden-Hameete, Veronique V. Rogemond, Jerome J. Honnorat, Lidia L. Sabeter, Francesc F. Graus, Sven S. Jarius, Raymond R. Voltz, Brigitte B. Wildemann, Diego D. Franciotta, Inga M IM. Blöcker, Wolfgang W. Schlumberger, Winfried W. Stöcker, Peter A E PA. Sillevis Smitt
Abstract: To determine sensitivity and specificity of a standardized recombinant cell-based indirect immunofluorescence assay (RC-IFA) for anti-Tr antibodies in comparison to a reference procedure.


Title #40: Dynamic information processing states revealed through neurocognitive models of object semantics.
PMID: 25745632
Authors: Alex A. Clarke
Abstract: Recognising objects relies on highly dynamic, interactive brain networks to process multiple aspects of object information. To fully understand how different forms of information about objects are represented and processed in the brain requires a neurocognitive account of visual object recognition that combines a detailed cognitive model of semantic knowledge with a neurobiological model of visual object processing. Here we ask how specific cognitive factors are instantiated in our mental processes and how they dynamically evolve over time. We suggest that coarse semantic information, based on generic shared semantic knowledge, is rapidly extracted from visual inputs and is sufficient to drive rapid category decisions. Subsequent recurrent neural activity between the anterior temporal lobe and posterior fusiform supports the formation of object-specific semantic representations - a conjunctive process primarily driven by the perirhinal cortex. These object-specific representations require the integration of shared and distinguishing object properties and support the unique recognition of objects. We conclude that a valuable way of understanding the cognitive activity of the brain is though testing the relationship between specific cognitive measures and dynamic neural activity. This kind of approach allows us to move towards uncovering the information processing states of the brain and how they evolve over time.


Title #41: Efficiency of the lausanne clinical pathway for proximal femoral fractures.
PMID: 25745631
Authors: Nicole N. Fleury, François F. Chevalley, Eve E. Rubli, Pauline P. Coti, Alain A. Farron, Brigitte M BM. Jolles
Abstract: Purpose/Introduction: The number of hip fractures is rising, due to increases in life expectancy. In such cases, patients are at risk from post-operative complications and subsequently the average length of hospitalization may be extended. In 2011, we established a clinical pathway (CP), a specific model of care for patient-care management, to improve the clinical and economic outcomes of proximal femoral fracture management in elderly patients. The goal was to evaluate the CP using clinical, process, and financial indicators.


Title #42: Exercise training reinstates cortico-cortical sensorimotor functional connectivity following striatal lesioning: development and application of a subregional-level analytic toolbox for perfusion autoradiographs of the rat brain.
PMID: 25745629
Authors: Yu-Hao YH. Peng, Ryan R. Heintz, Zhuo Z. Wang, Yumei Y. Guo, Kalisa G KG. Myers, Oscar U OU. Scremin, Jean-Michel I JM. Maarek, Daniel P DP. Holschneider
Abstract: Current rodent connectome projects are revealing brain structural connectivity with unprecedented resolution and completeness. How subregional structural connectivity relates to subregional functional interactions is an emerging research topic. We describe a method for standardized, mesoscopic-level data sampling from autoradiographic coronal sections of the rat brain, and for correlation-based analysis and intuitive display of cortico-cortical functional connectivity (FC) on a flattened cortical map. A graphic user interface "Cx-2D" allows for the display of significant correlations of individual regions-of-interest, as well as graph theoretical metrics across the cortex. Cx-2D was tested on an autoradiographic data set of cerebral blood flow (CBF) of rats that had undergone bilateral striatal lesions, followed by 4 weeks of aerobic exercise training or no exercise. Effects of lesioning and exercise on cortico-cortical FC were examined during a locomotor challenge in this rat model of Parkinsonism. Subregional FC analysis revealed a rich functional reorganization of the brain in response to lesioning and exercise that was not apparent in a standard analysis focused on CBF of isolated brain regions. Lesioned rats showed diminished degree centrality of lateral primary motor cortex, as well as neighboring somatosensory cortex-changes that were substantially reversed in lesioned rats following exercise training. Seed analysis revealed that exercise increased positive correlations in motor and somatosensory cortex, with little effect in non-sensorimotor regions such as visual, auditory, and piriform cortex. The current analysis revealed that exercise partially reinstated sensorimotor FC lost following dopaminergic deafferentation. Cx-2D allows for standardized data sampling from images of brain slices, as well as analysis and display of cortico-cortical FC in the rat cerebral cortex with potential applications in a variety of autoradiographic and histologic studies.


Title #43: Epidermoid cyst of the cecum.
PMID: 25745626
Authors: Jae-Young JY. Park, Youn Wha YW. Kim, Kil Yeon KY. Lee, Ji-Youn JY. Sung
Abstract: An epidermoid cyst of the cecum is extremely rare; only eight cases have been reported in the literature. A 63-year-old woman was admitted to Kyung Hee University Medical Center with a colonic mass that had been discovered incidentally during a regular health check-up. The radiographic impression was that this mass was a gastrointestinal stromal tumor. During surgery, an exophytic mass in the cecal wall was resected by using an ileocecectomy. Based on the macroscopic and the microscopic findings, this case was identified as an epidermoid cyst of the cecal wall. We report this case to discuss the origin of this entity and the unusual nature of our case.


Title #44: Late presentation of anal canal duplication in adults: a series of four rare cases.
PMID: 25745625
Authors: Rezvan R. Mirzaei, Bahar B. Mahjubi, Mina M. Alvandipoor, Mohammad Yasin MY. Karami
Abstract: Anal canal duplication (ACD) is a very rare condition, especially in adults. Four cases in adults are reported. In three cases, the orifice of duplication was located behind the native anus, and in one case, it was located anteriorly. In all cases, no communication between the anal canal and the tract of duplication was noted. Complete removals of the duplications were done through a perineal approach. Histology showed fibro-muscular tissue lined with a squamous epithelium. The postoperative courses were uneventful.


Title #45: Clinical trial on the incidence of wound infection and patient satisfaction after stoma closure: comparison of two skin closure techniques.
PMID: 25745624
Authors: Sang Il SI. Yoon, Sun Mi SM. Bae, Hwan H. Namgung, Dong Guk DG. Park
Abstract: Surgical site infection (SSI) is one of the most common complications that can occur after stoma closure. Reports have described differences in the incidence of wound infection depending on the skin closure technique, but there is no consensus on the ideal closure technique for a stoma wound. The aim of this study was to compare the incidence of SSI and the patient satisfaction between a circumferential purse-string approximation (CPA) and a primary linear closure (PC) of a stoma wound.


Title #46: Predictors of fecal incontinence and related quality of life after a total mesorectal excision with primary anastomosis for patients with rectal cancer.
PMID: 25745623
Authors: Marieke S MS. Walma, Verena N N VN. Kornmann, Djamila D. Boerma, Marnix A J MA. de Roos, Henderik L HL. van Westreenen
Abstract: After total mesorectal excision (TME) with primary anastomosis for patients with rectal cancer, the quality of life (QoL) may be decreased due to fecal incontinence. This study aimed to identify predictors of fecal incontinence and related QoL.


Title #47: Reduced-port laparoscopic surgery for a tumor-specific mesorectal excision in patients with colorectal cancer: initial experience with 20 consecutive cases.
PMID: 25745622
Authors: Sung Uk SU. Bae, Se Jin SJ. Baek, Byung Soh BS. Min, Seung Hyuk SH. Baik, Nam Kyu NK. Kim, Hyuk H. Hur
Abstract: Single-port plus one-port, reduced-port laparoscopic surgery (RPLS) may decrease collisions between laparoscopic instruments and the camera in a narrow, bony, pelvic cavity while maintaining the cosmetic advantages of single-incision laparoscopic surgery. The aim of this study is to describe our initial experience with and to assess the feasibility and safety of RPLS for tumor-specific mesorectal excisions (TSMEs) in patients with colorectal cancer.


Title #48: Clinicopathologic Significance of BRAF Mutation and Extracellular Signal Regulated Kinase 1/2 Expression in Patients With a Colorectal Adenocarcinoma.
PMID: 25745621
Authors: Hyung Ook HO. Kim, Beom Gyu BG. Kim, Seong Jae SJ. Cha, Yong Gum YG. Park, Tae Jin TJ. Lee
Abstract: BRAF mutation and expression of extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) are linked with colorectal carcinogenesis through the serrated pathway. BRAF and ERK1/2 play important roles in the activation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling pathways. The present study investigated the clinicopathologic outcomes of BRAF mutation and ERK1/2 expression in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) and the possibility of using them as prognostic indicators.


Title #49: Imaging Amyloidopathy in Parkinson Disease and Parkinsonian Dementia Syndromes.
PMID: 25745616
Authors: Kirk A KA. Frey, Myria M. Petrou
Abstract: Dementia arising in patients with Parkinson disease or parkinsonian neurodegeneration comprises a heterogeneous neuropathology. Clinical labeling of patients with both dementia and Parkinson disease is dichotomous, depending on the temporal development of cognitive impairment and motor parkinsonism. Patients with dementia arising first (or within the first year of PD) are classified as dementia with Lewy bodies; patients with PD for more than one year before cognitive decline are classified as Parkinson disease with dementia. Despite this differential clinical classification, autopsy studies demonstrate variable admixtures of cortical synuicleinopathy, Aβ-amyloidopathy and tau neurofibrillary tangle deposition. There are no routine clinical diagnostic measures that accurately distinguish the underlying neuropathologies in individual patients. In the present paper, we review the published literature describing characteristics of fibrillary Aβ-amyloid deposition on the basis of PET radiotracer imaging in patients with Parkinson disease and in parkinsonian dementia syndromes. Although individual reports often include only small-to-modest subject numbers, there is overall suggestion that PD patients have a lower incidence of Aβ-amyloid deposition than seen amongst elderly normal subjects, and that Parkinson disease with dementia patients have a lower incidence of Aβ-amyloid deposition than do patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. These apparent features contrast the findings of Aβ-amyloid-PET imaging in normal aging and the development of Alzheimer disease, where Aβ-amyloid deposition arises asymptomatically and apparently many years before development of signs or symptoms of dementia. It is proposed that focused, prospective studies are needed to further address and understand the complex role(s) of Aβ-amyloid pathology in Parkinson disease, and that this understanding will be critical to the development of targeted disease-modifying therapy for dementia in PD.


Title #50: Subjective visual vertical and horizontal abnormalities in a patient with lateral medullary syndrome-a case report.
PMID: 25745615
Authors: Amit Kumar AK. Tyagi, Gaurav G. Ashish, Anjali A. Lepcha, Achamma A. Balraj
Abstract: Evaluation of persistent vertigo in post infarct patients is very important as the management depends on whether the cause is purely of central origin or due to associated vestibular affliction.


Title #51: Coexistence of granular cell tumor with squamous cell carcinoma on the tongue: a case report.
PMID: 25745614
Authors: Recep R. Bedir, Rukiye R. Yilmaz, Ibrahim I. Sehitoglu, Abdulkadir A. Ozgur
Abstract: Granular cell tumors (GCTs) are rare and mostly benign soft tissue tumors. Though they have been reported in all parts of body, they are generally located in the head and neck region, especially on the tongue. Some malign forms exist, but these have been rarely reported. Granular cell tumors have a neural origin and, in immunohistochemical evaluations, they express S-100 and neuron specific enolase (NSE). The treatment of these tumors is bulky surgical excision.


Title #52: Sleep Apnea Syndrome after Posterior Fossa Surgery: A Case of Acquired Ondine's Curse.
PMID: 25745613
Authors: Elnaz E. Faraji Rad, Mohammad M. Faraji Rad, Shahram S. Amini, Reza R. Zare
Abstract: Ondine's Curse is a catastrophic but rare condition in adults. It is referred to as a congenital or acquired condition, in which the patient cannot breathe automatically while asleep. Acquired causes of this disease can be any cause affecting the ventrolateral part of the medulla, which is considered to be the breathing center in humans. 


Title #53: A new clinical scoring system for adenoid hypertrophy in children.
PMID: 25745612
Authors: Shervin S. Sharifkashani, Payman P. Dabirmoghaddam, Maryam M. Kheirkhah, Rima R. Hosseinzadehnik
Abstract: Chronic nasal obstruction due to adenoid hypertrophy is a very common disorder. Although the clinical assessment of adenoid hypertrophy is essential, its real value in young children is difficult to evaluate. The purpose of this prospective study was to validate a simple clinical score to predict the severity of adenoid obstruction and to evaluate the relationship between this method of clinical scoring with radiography and nasopharyngeal endoscopy.


Title #54: Oral manifestations of human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients.
PMID: 25745611
Authors: Atessa A. Pakfetrat, Farnaz F. Falaki, Zahra Z. Delavarian, Zohreh Z. Dalirsani, Majid M. Sanatkhani, Mahsa M. Zabihi Marani
Abstract: Oral lesions are among the earliest clinical manifestations of human immunodeficiency (HIV) infection and are important in early diagnosis and for monitoring the progression to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of oral lesions and their relationship with a number of factors in HIV/AIDS patients attending an HIV center.


Title #55: Cleft lip and Palate: A 30-year Epidemiologic Study in North-East of Iran.
PMID: 25745610
Authors: Hamidreza H. Kianifar, Nadia N. Hasanzadeh, Arezoo A. Jahanbin, Atefeh A. Ezzati, Homa H. Kianifar
Abstract: Cleft lip and palate are among the most common congenital anomalies worldwide. This study was conducted in order to explore the incidence and related factors of cleft lip and/or palate (CL/P) among live births in Mashhad, North-Eastern Iran.


Title #56: Surgical Outcomes of Cerebellopontine angle Tumors in 50 Cases.
PMID: 25745609
Authors: Faramarz F. Memari, Fatemeh F. Hassannia, Seyed Hamid Reza SH. Abtahi
Abstract: To report our experience with a large series of surgical procedures for removal of cerebellopontine angle (CPA) tumors using different approaches.


Title #57: Mastoid cavity obliteration with combined palva flapand bone pâté.
PMID: 25745608
Authors: Samad S. Ghiasi
Abstract: This study was designed to evaluate the usefulness of mastoid cavity obliteration with combined bone pâté and Palva flap in the prevention of problematic mastoid cavities after canal wall down mastoidectomy.


Title #58: Corrosive injury of the upper gastrointestinal tract: review of surgical management and outcome in 14 adult cases.
PMID: 25745607
Authors: Mohammad Taghi MT. Rajabi, Ghodratollah G. Maddah, Reza R. Bagheri, Mostafa M. Mehrabi, Hossein H. Shabahang, Farjad F. Lorestani
Abstract: Caustic ingestion is responsible for a spectrum of upper gastrointestinal tract injury from self-limited to perforation. This study conducted to evaluate clinical characteristics as well as surgical outcomes in patients with caustic ingestion.


Title #59: Common Mutations of the Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase (MTHFR) Gene in Non-Syndromic Cleft Lips and Palates Children in North-West of Iran.
PMID: 25745606
Authors: Shahin S. Abdollahi-Fakhim, Mehrdad M. Asghari Estiar, Parizad P. Varghaei, Mahdi M. Alizadeh Sharafi, Masoud M. Sakhinia, Ebrahim E. Sakhinia
Abstract: Cleft lips and cleft palates are common congenital abnormalities in children. Various chromosomal loci have been suggested to be responsible the development of these abnormalities. The present study was carried out to investigate the association between the suspected genes (methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase [MTHFR] A1298C and C677T) that might contribute into the etiology of these disorders through application of molecular methods.


Title #60: (18)F-FDG PET-CT for Surveillance of Brazilian Patients with Li-Fraumeni Syndrome.
PMID: 25745605
Authors: Sonia Tereza Santos ST. Nogueira, Eduardo Nóbrega Pereira EN. Lima, Amanda França AF. Nóbrega, Ivone Do Carmo Gonçalves Ido.C. Torres, Marcelo M. Cavicchioli, Pierre P. Hainaut, Maria Isabel Waddington MI. Achatz
Abstract: To evaluate the effectiveness of (18)F-Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography ((18)F-FDG-PET/CT) for detecting early cancer in carriers of germline TP53 mutation, the genetic defect underlying Li-Fraumeni and related syndromes, which predisposes to many forms of cancer throughout life.


Title #61: The cervix cancer research network: increasing access to cancer clinical trials in low- and middle-income countries.
PMID: 25745604
Authors: Gita G. Suneja, Monica M. Bacon, William W. Small, Sang Y SY. Ryu, Henry C HC. Kitchener, David K DK. Gaffney
Abstract: The burden of cervical cancer is large and growing in developing countries, due in large part to limited access to screening services and lack of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination. In spite of modern advances in diagnostic and therapeutic modalities, outcomes from cervical cancer have not markedly improved in recent years. Novel clinical trials are urgently needed to improve outcomes from cervical cancer worldwide.


Title #62: Overcoming transport barriers for interstitial-, lymphatic-, and lymph node-targeted drug delivery.
PMID: 25745594
Authors: Susan N SN. Thomas, Alex A. Schudel
Abstract: Despite drug formulation improving circulation times and targeting, efficacy is stymied by inadequate penetration into and retention within target tissues. This review highlights the barriers restricting delivery to the connective tissue interstitium, lymphatics, and lymph nodes as well as advances in engineering drug carriers to overcome these delivery challenges. Three-dimensional tissue physiology is discussed in the context of providing material design principles for delivery to these tissues; in particular the influence of interstitial and lymphatic flows as well as differential permeabilities of the blood and lymphatic capillaries. Key examples of materials with different characteristics developed to overcome these transport barriers are discussed as well as potential areas for further development.


Title #63: Spirituality moderates the relationship of psychosocial stress to metabolic risk factors among Afro-Caribbean immigrants in the US Virgin Islands.
PMID: 25745593
Authors: Eugene S ES. Tull, Willa M WM. Doswell, Malcolm A MA. Cort
Abstract: Spirituality may contribute to the health advantage of foreign-born blacks compared to United States (US)-born blacks. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that spirituality attenuates the association of psychosocial stress to stress-associated metabolic risk factors among foreign-born Caribbean blacks living in a US jurisdiction.


Title #64: Neurobiology of Pediatric Anxiety Disorders.
PMID: 25745592
Authors: Jeffrey R JR. Strawn, Kelli C KC. Dominick, Luis R LR. Patino, Christopher D CD. Doyle, Lara S LS. Picard, K Luan KL. Phan
Abstract: While the fear-based anxiety disorders (i.e., generalized anxiety disorder, social phobia and separation anxiety disorder) are among the most common psychiatric conditions in children and adolescents, only recently has an integrated understanding of the neurobiology of these disorders developed. In this regard, both structural and functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated neuroanatomic and functional abnormalities within the amygdala and prefrontal cortex in youth with fear-based anxiety disorders, and have also suggested altered functional connectivity among components of the anterior limbic network (ALN), as well as alterations in neurochemistry within the anterior cingulate cortex. Additionally, several prefrontal structures and regions (e.g., medial prefrontal cortex) appear to be dysregulated in youth who are at risk of developing anxiety disorders (e.g., youth with inhibited temperament, behavioral inhibition, etc.). Finally, emerging data raise the possibility that functional activity within these amygdala-prefrontal networks may be affected by successful psychopharmacologic and psychotherapeutic treatment and may predict outcome.


Title #65: Selective inhibitors of nuclear export (SINE) in hematological malignancies.
PMID: 25745591
Authors: Arundhati A. Das, Guoqing G. Wei, Kaushal K. Parikh, Delong D. Liu
Abstract: Regulated nucleo-cytoplasmic transport plays a major role in maintaining cellular homeostasis. CRM1 (chromosome region maintenance 1 or exportin 1 or XPO 1) is responsible for the nucleo-cytoplasmic transport of more than 200 proteins, including most of the tumor suppressor proteins (TSP). CRM1 is overexpressed in pancreatic cancer, osteosarcoma, glioma, cervical and hematological malignancies. This inspired the development of novel agents that selectively inhibit nuclear exportins (SINEs). In this review we focus on the significance of CRM1 in carcinogenesis and review the new development of SINE inhibitiors in hematological malignancies. Selinexor (KPT-330) as the first-in-human SINE agent represents this novel class of anti-cancer agents.


Title #66: Statistical Significance of Geographic Heterogeneity Measures In Spatial Epidemiologic Studies.
PMID: 25745590
Authors: Min M. Lian
Abstract: Assessing geographic variations in health events is one of the major tasks in spatial epidemiologic studies. Geographic variation in a health event can be estimated using the neighborhood-level variance that is derived from a generalized mixed linear model or a Bayesian spatial hierarchical model. Two novel heterogeneity measures, including median odds ratio and interquartile odds ratio, have been developed to quantify the magnitude of geographic variations and facilitate the data interpretation. However, the statistical significance of geographic heterogeneity measures was inaccurately estimated in previous epidemiologic studies that reported two-sided 95% confidence intervals based on standard error of the variance or 95% credible intervals with a range from 2.5(th) to 97.5(th) percentiles of the Bayesian posterior distribution. Given the mathematical algorithms of heterogeneity measures, the statistical significance of geographic variation should be evaluated using a one-tailed P value. Therefore, previous studies using two-tailed 95% confidence intervals based on a standard error of the variance may have underestimated the geographic variation in events of their interest and those using 95% Bayesian credible intervals may need to re-evaluate the geographic variation of their study outcomes.


Title #67: Absence of the superior petrosal veins and sinus: Surgical considerations.
PMID: 25745589
Authors: Ken K. Matsushima, Eduardo Santamaria Carvalhal ES. Ribas, Hiro H. Kiyosue, Noritaka N. Komune, Koichi K. Miki, Albert L AL. Rhoton
Abstract: The superior petrosal vein, one of the most constant and largest drainage pathways in the posterior fossa, may result in complications if occluded. This study calls attention to a unique variant in which the superior petrosal veins and sinus were absent unilaterally, and the venous drainage was through the galenic and tentorial drainage groups.


Title #68: Simulation and resident education in spinal neurosurgery.
PMID: 25745588
Authors: Parker E PE. Bohm, Paul M PM. Arnold
Abstract: A host of factors have contributed to the increasing use of simulation in neurosurgical resident education. Although the number of simulation-related publications has increased exponentially over the past two decades, no studies have specifically examined the role of simulation in resident education in spinal neurosurgery.


Title #69: Sources of delayed provision of neurosurgical care in a rural kenyan setting.
PMID: 25745587
Authors: Alireza A. Mansouri, Vivien V. Chan, Veronica V. Njaramba, David W DW. Cadotte, A Leland AL. Albright, Mark M. Bernstein
Abstract: Delay to neurosurgical care can result in significant morbidity and mortality. In this study, we aim to identify and quantify the sources of delay to neurosurgical consultation and care at a rural setting in Kenya.


Title #70: Management of posterior fossa arteriovenous malformations.
PMID: 25745586
Authors: Joao Paulo JP. Almeida, Roberto R. Medina, Rafael J RJ. Tamargo
Abstract: Posterior fossa arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are rare vascular lesions, representing 7-15% of all intracranial AVMs. Although less frequent than supratentorial AVMs, they present higher rupture, morbidity, and mortality rates. Microsurgery, radiosurgery, and endovascular neurosurgery are treatment options for obliteration of those lesions. In this paper, we present a critical review of the literature about the management of posterior fossa AVM.


Title #71: Complete utero vaginal prolapse in a woman with prolapsed submucous fibroid.
PMID: 25745583
Authors: Uu U. Aniebue, To T. Nwankwo
Abstract: Uterine fibroids are benign tumors of the uterus and those located beneath the uterine mucosa may present as prolapsed fibroid in the vagina. Prolapsed submucous fibroid associated with complete uterovaginal prolapse is however uncommon.


Title #72: Family process and content: comparing families of suicide attempters, human immunodeficiency virus positive patients and general population in southern iran, 2012.
PMID: 25745582
Authors: F. F. Rezaei
Abstract: Family is considered as the smallest social unit, which is the basis of forming a society and one of the effective factors for individual behaviors. When family pattern is useful, the family will be productive and otherwise it becomes nonproductive.


Title #73: Modifiable Risk factors of Hypertension and Socio-demographic Profile in Oghara, Delta State; Prevalence and Correlates.
PMID: 25745581
Authors: Ru R. Ibekwe
Abstract: Factors associated with the development of hypertension can be categorized into modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors. The modifiable risk factors include obesity, physical inactivity, high salt diet, smoking alcohol consumption and others.


Title #74: The pattern of pediatric respiratory illnesses admitted in ebonyi state university teaching hospital South-East Nigeria.
PMID: 25745580
Authors: Ct C. Ezeonu, Cj C. Uneke, Jo J. Ojukwu, Ou O. Anyanwu, Co C. Okike, Ob O. Ezeanosike, Hu H. Agumadu
Abstract: Reports from the developed nations reveal respiratory tract infections as the leading cause of childhood hospital admissions. Children may be admitted for a variety of respiratory illnesses. Data on the spectrum of pediatric respiratory illnesses admitted in the hospital is scarce.


Title #75: Self-care activities among patients with diabetes attending a tertiary care hospital in mangalore karnataka, India.
PMID: 25745579
Authors: D. D. Rajasekharan, V. V. Kulkarni, B. B. Unnikrishnan, N. N. Kumar, R. R. Holla, R. R. Thapar
Abstract: Increasing prevalence of diabetes in India is resulting in an epidemiological transition. The care of the people with diabetes is traditionally seen as doctor centered, but the concept of self-care of people with diabetes is a new domain and is proven beneficial.


Title #76: An overview of the predictors of symptomatic urinary tract infection among nursing students.
PMID: 25745578
Authors: S. S. Vyas, D. D. Varshney, P. P. Sharma, R. R. Juyal, V. V. Nautiyal, Vp V. Shrotriya
Abstract: Urinary tract infection (UTI) is the most common infection experienced by humans after respiratory and gastro-intestinal infections, and also the most common cause of nosocomial infections for patients admitted to hospitals indeed UTIs are the most frequent bacterial infection in women.


Title #77: Demographic analysis of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo as a common public health problem.
PMID: 25745577
Authors: S. S. Yetiser, D. D. Ince
Abstract: Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the most common peripheral vestibular problem. However, demographic analysis is few.


Title #78: Prevalence and determinants of hypertension in an agrarian rural community in southeast Nigeria.
PMID: 25745576
Authors: Ei E. Ugwuja, Us U. Ezenkwa, An A. Nwibo, M. M. Ogbanshi, O. O. Idoko, R. R. Nnabu
Abstract: Hypertension is a cardiovascular disease of increasing global burden with prevalence in Nigeria ranging from 8% to 46.4%.


Title #79: Laser guided automated calibrating system for accurate bracket placement.
PMID: 25745575
Authors: A. A. Anitha, Aj A. Kumar, R. R. Mascarenhas, A. A. Husain
Abstract: The basic premise of preadjusted bracket system is accurate bracket positioning. It is widely recognized that accurate bracket placement is of critical importance in the efficient application of biomechanics and in realizing the full potential of a preadjusted edgewise appliance.


Title #80: Hematocrit, anemia, and arm preference for blood sample collection: a cross-sectional study of pregnant women in enugu, South-eastern, Nigeria.
PMID: 25745574
Authors: Cc C. Dim, Eo E. Ugwu, Nr N. Dim, Ub U. Anyaehie
Abstract: Anemia in pregnancy is a common cause of maternal morbidity and mortality in developing countries. Regular review of hematocrit (HCT) and anemia patterns in pregnancy is necessary in our environment.


Title #81: Use of oral mucoperiosteal and pterygo-masseteric muscle flaps as interposition material in surgery of temporomandibular joint ankylosis: a comparative study.
PMID: 25745573
Authors: Ce C. Anyanechi, Od O. Osunde, Go G. Bassey
Abstract: The most common complication of surgery for the release of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) ankylosis is relapse of the ankylosis. To prevent re-ankylosis, a variety of interpositional materials have been used.


Title #82: Reported Sexual Violence among Women and Children Seen at the Gynecological Emergency Unit of a Rural Tertiary Health Facility, Northwest Nigeria.
PMID: 25745572
Authors: Ao A. Ashimi, Tg T. Amole, Ea E. Ugwa
Abstract: Various forms of sexual violence including: Coerced marriage or wife inheritance, female genital mutilation, forced exposure to pornography, rape by intimate partner or strangers, unwanted sexual advances, and sexual abuse occurs, especially in vulnerable groups. However, most of these cases are not reported.


Title #83: Poor availability of skilled birth attendants in Nigeria: a case study of enugu state primary health care system.
PMID: 25745571
Authors: Peter O PO. Nkwo, Lucky O LO. Lawani, Agozie C AC. Ubesie, Vincent A VA. Onodugo, Herbert A HA. Obu, Josephat M JM. Chinawa
Abstract: The Government of Enugu State plans to offer free perinatal services at the primary health care (PHC) centers in order to improve perinatal outcomes in the state, but it was not clear whether there are skilled birth attendants (SBAs) at the PHC level to implement the program.


Title #84: Knowledge, attitudes, and practice of medical students regarding occupational risks of hepatitis B virus in college of medicine, aljouf university.
PMID: 25745570
Authors: Ah A. Al-Hazmi
Abstract: Medical students represent a population that is at high-risk group for acquiring and spreading hepatitis B infection (HBV).


Title #85: Evaluation of analytical errors in a clinical chemistry laboratory: a 3 year experience.
PMID: 25745569
Authors: As A. Sakyi, Ef E. Laing, Rk R. Ephraim, Of O. Asibey, Ok O. Sadique
Abstract: Proficient laboratory service is the cornerstone of modern healthcare systems and has an impact on over 70% of medical decisions on admission, discharge, and medications. In recent years, there is an increasing awareness of the importance of errors in laboratory practice and their possible negative impact on patient outcomes.


Title #86: Debating Elective Single Embryo Transfer after in vitro Fertilization: A Plea for a Context-Sensitive Approach.
PMID: 25745568
Authors: Ec E. Ezugwu, S Van SV. der Burg
Abstract: The number of embryos transferred after in vitro fertilization (IVF) have been a topic of debate for over a decade now. Due to the risk associated with multiple pregnancy, there has been a global effort at reducing the multiple pregnancy rates to a minimum while maintaining an acceptable level of successful IVF pregnancy rate. Elective single embryo transfer (eSET) is advocated in most European countries. In Belgium and Sweden, eSET is mandatory for couples with a good prognosis. However, despite clinical recommendations and policy statements, patients in clinical practice frequently do request for the transfer of multiple embryos in order to have twins. Such requests conflict with policy guidelines and create an ethical dilemma for physicians: Should the physician do as the couple requests, and there with respect the autonomy of patients, or adhere to medical policy that takes the health of the mother and children at heart? This article provides an exploration of the arguments found in the literature that plays a role in the discussion on this topic and eventually argues that what a physician should do depends on the specificities of the context in which patients and physicians are implicated. These contextual issues can be taken into account in a shared decision-making procedure, which allows reflections and the responsibilities of both patients and physicians to be attended in decision about assisted reproduction.


Title #87: Adherence to process of care quality indicators after percutaneous coronary intervention in Ontario, Canada: a retrospective observational cohort study.
PMID: 25745567
Authors: Andrew A. Czarnecki, Treesa J TJ. Prasad, Julie J. Wang, Harindra C HC. Wijeysundera, Asim N AN. Cheema, Vladimír V. Dz̆avík, Madhu K MK. Natarajan, Chris S CS. Simpson, Derek Y DY. So, Jaffer J. Syed, Jack V JV. Tu, Dennis T DT. Ko
Abstract: Public reporting of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) outcomes has been established in many jurisdictions to ensure optimal delivery of care. The majority of PCI report cards examine in-hospital mortality, but relatively little is known regarding the adherence to processes of care.


Title #88: A systematic review of ICD complications in randomised controlled trials versus registries: is our 'real-world' data an underestimation?
PMID: 25745566
Authors: Vivienne A VA. Ezzat, Victor V. Lee, Syed S. Ahsan, Anthony W AW. Chow, Oliver O. Segal, Edward E. Rowland, Martin D MD. Lowe, Pier D PD. Lambiase
Abstract: Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) implantation carries a significant risk of complications, however published estimates appear inconsistent. We aimed to present a contemporary systematic review using meta-analysis methods of ICD complications in randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and compare it to recent data from the largest international ICD registry, the US National Cardiovascular Data Registry (NCDR). PubMed was searched for any RCTs involving ICD implantation published 1999-2013; 18 were identified for analysis including 6433 patients, mean follow-up 3 months-5.6 years. Exclusion criteria were studies of children, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, congenital heart disease, resynchronisation therapy and generator changes. Total pooled complication rate from the RCTs (excluding inappropriate shocks) was 9.1%, including displacement 3.1%, pneumothorax 1.1% and haematoma 1.2%. Infection rate was 1.5%.There were no predictors of complications but longer follow-up showed a trend to higher complication rates (p=0.07). In contrast, data from the NCDR ICD, reporting on 356 515 implants (2006-2010) showed a statistically significant threefold lower total major complication rate of 3.08% with lead displacement 1.02%, haematoma 0.86% and pneumothorax 0.44%. The overall ICD complication rate in our meta-analysis is 9.1% over 16 months. The ICD complication reported in the NCDR ICD registry is significantly lower despite a similar population. This may reflect under-reporting of complications in registries. Reporting of ICD complications in RCTs and registries is very variable and there is a need to standardise classification of complications internationally.


Title #89: Validity of a PCI Bleeding Risk Score in patient subsets stratified for body mass index.
PMID: 25745565
Authors: David R DR. Dobies, Kimberly R KR. Barber, Amanda L AL. Cohoon
Abstract: An accurate tool with good discriminative for bleeding would be useful to clinicians for improved management of all their patients. Bleeding risk models have been published but not externally validated in independent clinical data set. We chose the National Cardiovascular Data Registry (NCDR) percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) score to validate within a large, multisite community data set. The aim of the study was validation of this Bleeding Risk Score (BRS) tool among a subgroup of patients based on body mass index.


Title #90: Probability of Regenerating a Normal Limb After Bite Injury in the Mexican Axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum).
PMID: 25745564
Authors: Sierra S. Thompson, Laura L. Muzinic, Christopher C. Muzinic, Matthew L ML. Niemiller, S Randal SR. Voss
Abstract: Multiple factors are thought to cause limb abnormalities in amphibian populations by altering processes of limb development and regeneration. We examined adult and juvenile axolotls (Ambystoma mexicanum) in the Ambystoma Genetic Stock Center (AGSC) for limb and digit abnormalities to investigate the probability of normal regeneration after bite injury. We observed that 80% of larval salamanders show evidence of bite injury at the time of transition from group housing to solitary housing. Among 717 adult axolotls that were surveyed, which included solitary-housed males and group-housed females, approximately half presented abnormalities, including examples of extra or missing digits and limbs, fused digits, and digits growing from atypical anatomical positions. Bite injury likely explains these limb defects, and not abnormal development, because limbs with normal anatomy regenerated after performing rostral amputations. We infer that only 43% of AGSC larvae will present four anatomically normal looking adult limbs after incurring a bite injury. Our results show regeneration of normal limb anatomy to be less than perfect after bite injury.


Title #91: Pretreatment of garden biomass using Fenton's reagent: influence of Fe(2+) and H2O2 concentrations on lignocellulose degradation.
PMID: 25745563
Authors: Vivek P VP. Bhange, Spm Prince SP. William, Abhinav A. Sharma, Jagdish J. Gabhane, Atul N AN. Vaidya, Satish R SR. Wate
Abstract: Garden biomass (GB) is defined as low density and heterogeneous waste fraction of garden rubbish like grass clippings, pruning, flowers, branches, weeds; roots. GB is generally different from other types of biomass. GB is mostly generated through maintenance of green areas. GB can be processed for bio energy production as it contains considerably good amount of cellulose and hemicellulose. However, pretreatment is necessary to delignify and facilitate disruption of cellulosic moiety. The aim of the present investigation was to pretreat GB using Fenton's reagent and to study the influence of Fe(2+) and H2O2 concentrations on degradation of lignin and cellulose. The data were statistically analyzed using ANOVA and numerical point prediction tool of MINITAB RELEASE 14 to optimize different process variables such as temperature, concentration of Fe(2+) and H2O2. The results of the present investigation showed that Fenton's reagent was effective on GB, however, concentration of Fe(2+) and H2O2 play crucial role in determining the efficiency of pretreatment. An increase in H2O2 concentration in Fenton's reagent significantly increased the rate of cellulose and lignin degradation in contrast to increasing concentration of Fe(2+) ion which led to a decrease in lignocellulosic degradation.


Title #92: Urogenital tuberculosis: definition and classification.
PMID: 25745561
Authors: Ekaterina E. Kulchavenya
Abstract: To improve the approach to the diagnosis and management of urogenital tuberculosis (UGTB), we need clear and unique classification. UGTB remains an important problem, especially in developing countries, but it is often an overlooked disease. As with any other infection, UGTB should be cured by antibacterial therapy, but because of late diagnosis it may often require surgery.


Title #93: Management of invasive candidiasis in nonneutropenic ICU patients.
PMID: 25745560
Authors: Emmanuel E. Weiss, Jean-François JF. Timsit
Abstract: Invasive candidiasis (IC) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality among nonneutropenic ICU patients and these life-threatening nosocomial infections require early diagnosis and prompt treatment. However, none of the predictive tools are sufficiently accurate to identify high-risk patients and the potential interest of IC prophylactic, empirical and preemptive treatment in the nonneutropenic ICU population has not yet been demonstrated. In the case of nosocomial severe sepsis after necrotizing pancreatitis or upper digestive anastomotic leakage, early probabilistic antifungals are probably indicated. In the remaining ICU surgical and medical patients, prophylactic and empirical strategies are highly debated because they may promote antifungal selective pressure through an overuse of these molecules. In this context, non-culture-based methods such as mannan or β-D glucan or polymerase chain reaction tests are promising. However, none of these tests used alone in ICU patients is sufficiently accurate to avoid overuse of empirical/preemptive treatment. The interest of strategies associating predictive clinical scores and non-culture-based methods still needs to be demonstrated by well-conducted randomized, controlled trials. While awaiting these studies, we consider that probabilist treatment should be stopped earlier if IC is not proven.


Title #94: Change in prevalence of restrictive lung impairment in the U.S. population and associated risk factors: the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 1988-1994 and 2007-2010.
PMID: 25745559
Authors: Laura L. Kurth, Eva E. Hnizdo
Abstract: Data for the U.S adult population from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) were used to evaluate risk factors for a restrictive pattern on spirometry and estimate the change in its prevalence from the 1988-1994 to 2007-2010 sampling periods. Several previous epidemiologic studies used the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease fixed forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1)/forced vital capacity (FVC) > 0.70 criteria for classifying restrictive pattern rather than the age-defined American Thoracic Society (ATS)/European Respiratory Society (ERS) lower limit of normal (LLN) criteria, which may lead to misclassification.


Title #95: Epitope topography controls bioactivity in supramolecular nanofibers.
PMID: 25745558
Authors: Shantanu S. Sur, Faifan F. Tantakitti, John B JB. Matson, Samuel I SI. Stupp
Abstract: Incorporating bioactivity into artificial scaffolds using peptide epitopes present in the extracellular matrix (ECM) is a well-known approach. A common strategy has involved epitopes that provide cells with attachment points and external cues through interaction with integrin receptors. Although a variety of bioactive sequences have been identified so far, less is known about their optimal display in a scaffold. We report here on the use of self-assembled peptide amphiphile (PA) nanofiber matrices to investigate the impact of spatial presentation of the fibronectin derived epitope RGDS on cell response. Using one, three, or five glycine residues, RGDS epitopes were systematically spaced out from the surface of the rigid nanofibers. We found that cell morphology was strongly affected by the separation of the epitope from the nanofiber surface, with the longest distance yielding the most cell-spreading, bundling of actin filaments, and a round-to-polygonal transformation of cell shape. Cell response to this type of epitope display was also accompanied with activated integrin-mediated signaling and formation of stronger adhesions between cells and substrate. Interestingly, unlike length, changing the molecular flexibility of the linker had minimal influence on cell behavior on the substrate for reasons that remain poorly understood. The use in this study of high persistence length nanofibers rather than common flexible polymers allows us to conclude that epitope topography at the nanoscale structure of a scaffold influences its bioactive properties independent of epitope density and mechanical properties.


Title #96: Bacterial species isolated from cats with lower urinary tract infection and their susceptibilities to cefovecin.
PMID: 25745557
Authors: Banu B. Dokuzeylül, Beren Başaran BB. Kahraman, Alper A. Bayrakal, Belgi Diren BD. Siğirci, Baran B. Çelik, Serkan S. Ikiz, Abdullah A. Kayar, M Erman ME. Or
Abstract: The aim of this study was to determine the bacterial species recovered from 61 cats with lower urinary tract infection (LUTI), and their susceptibility to cefovecin in vitro.


Title #97: The quest for a better insight into physiology of fluids and barriers of the brain: the exemplary career of Joseph D. Fenstermacher.
PMID: 25745556
Authors: Adam A. Chodobski, Jean-François JF. Ghersi-Egea, Charles C. Nicholson, Tavarekere N TN. Nagaraja, Joanna J. Szmydynger-Chodobska
Abstract: In June 2014 Dr. Joseph D. Fenstermacher celebrated his 80th birthday, which was honored by the symposium held in New London, NH, USA. This review discusses Fenstermacher's contribution to the field of fluids and barriers of the CNS. Specifically, his fundamental work on diffusion of molecules within the brain extracellular space and the research on properties of the blood-brain barrier in health and disease are described. Fenstermacher's early research on cerebrospinal fluid dynamics and the regulation of cerebral blood flow is also reviewed, followed by the discussion of his more recent work involving the use of magnetic resonance imaging.


Title #98: Variations in genome-wide RNAi screens: lessons from influenza research.
PMID: 25745555
Authors: Yu-Chi YC. Chou, Michael Mc MM. Lai, Yi-Chen YC. Wu, Nai-Chi NC. Hsu, King-Song KS. Jeng, Wen-Chi WC. Su
Abstract: Genome-wide RNA interference (RNAi) screening is an emerging and powerful technique for genetic screens, which can be divided into arrayed RNAi screen and pooled RNAi screen/selection based on different screening strategies. To date, several genome-wide RNAi screens have been successfully performed to identify host factors essential for influenza virus replication. However, the host factors identified by different research groups are not always consistent. Taking influenza virus screens as an example, we found that a number of screening parameters may directly or indirectly influence the primary hits identified by the screens. This review highlights the differences among the published genome-wide screening approaches and offers recommendations for performing a good pooled shRNA screen/selection.


Title #99: Early androgen exposure and human gender development.
PMID: 25745554
Authors: Melissa M. Hines, Mihaela M. Constantinescu, Debra D. Spencer
Abstract: During early development, testosterone plays an important role in sexual differentiation of the mammalian brain and has enduring influences on behavior. Testosterone exerts these influences at times when the testes are active, as evidenced by higher concentrations of testosterone in developing male than in developing female animals. This article critically reviews the available evidence regarding influences of testosterone on human gender-related development. In humans, testosterone is elevated in males from about weeks 8 to 24 of gestation and then again during early postnatal development. Individuals exposed to atypical concentrations of testosterone or other androgenic hormones prenatally, for example, because of genetic conditions or because their mothers were prescribed hormones during pregnancy, have been consistently found to show increased male-typical juvenile play behavior, alterations in sexual orientation and gender identity (the sense of self as male or female), and increased tendencies to engage in physically aggressive behavior. Studies of other behavioral outcomes following dramatic androgen abnormality prenatally are either too small in their numbers or too inconsistent in their results, to provide similarly conclusive evidence. Studies relating normal variability in testosterone prenatally to subsequent gender-related behavior have produced largely inconsistent results or have yet to be independently replicated. For studies of prenatal exposures in typically developing individuals, testosterone has been measured in single samples of maternal blood or amniotic fluid. These techniques may not be sufficiently powerful to consistently detect influences of testosterone on behavior, particularly in the relatively small samples that have generally been studied. The postnatal surge in testosterone in male infants, sometimes called mini-puberty, may provide a more accessible opportunity for measuring early androgen exposure during typical development. This approach has recently begun to be used, with some promising results relating testosterone during the first few months of postnatal life to later gender-typical play behavior. In replicating and extending these findings, it may be important to assess testosterone when it is maximal (months 1 to 2 postnatal) and to take advantage of the increased reliability afforded by repeated sampling.


Title #100: Genetic variant rs17225178 in the ARNT2 gene is associated with Asperger Syndrome.
PMID: 25745553
Authors: Agnese A. Di Napoli, Varun V. Warrier, Simon S. Baron-Cohen, Bhismadev B. Chakrabarti
Abstract: Autism Spectrum Conditions (ASC) are neurodevelopmental conditions characterized by difficulties in communication and social interaction, alongside unusually repetitive behaviours and narrow interests. Asperger Syndrome (AS) is one subgroup of ASC and differs from classic autism in that in AS there is no language or general cognitive delay. Genetic, epigenetic and environmental factors are implicated in ASC and genes involved in neural connectivity and neurodevelopment are good candidates for studying the susceptibility to ASC. The aryl-hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator 2 (ARNT2) gene encodes a transcription factor involved in neurodevelopmental processes, neuronal connectivity and cellular responses to hypoxia. A mutation in this gene has been identified in individuals with ASC and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been nominally associated with AS and autistic traits in previous studies.


Title #101: Clinical reversible myelopathy in T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma treated with nelarabine and radiotherapy: report of a case and review of literature of an increasing complication.
PMID: 25745552
Authors: Maria Chiara MC. Tisi, Giuseppe G. Ausoni, Maria Gabriella MG. Vita, Tommaso T. Tartaglione, Mario M. Balducci, Luca L. Laurenti, Patrizia P. Chiusolo, Stefan S. Hohaus, Simona S. Sica
Abstract: Eleven cases of neurological defects in T-ALL patients treated with nelarabine have been described in the last 4 years, seven of these after stem cell transplantation (SCT) for T Lymphoblastic Lymphoma (T-LBL). Most of these patients had an unfavorable outcome or irreversible neurological damage. We now report the case of a 41-year-old woman suffering from T-LBL who presented with severe, but reversible myelopathy after receiving nelarabine-based treatment and mediastinal radiotherapy, and we provide a review of the literature on the topic.


Title #102: Acquired hemophilia a successfully treated with rituximab.
PMID: 25745551
Authors: Giovanni G. D'Arena, Elvira E. Grandone, Matteo Nicola Dario MN. Di Minno, Pellegrino P. Musto, Giovanni G. Di Minno
Abstract: Acquired hemophilia A (AHA) is a rare bleeding disorder due to the development of specific autoantibodies against factor VIII. The anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody Rituximab has been proven to be effective in obtaining a long-term suppression of inhibitors of AHA, besides other immunosuppressive standard treatments. Here we describe a case of idiopathic AHA in a 60-year old man successfully treated with rituximab. He showed a complete clinical response with a normalization of clotting parameters after 5 weekly courses of rituximab given at a dose of 375 mg/sqm., but after stopping rituximab, an initial worsening of coagulation parameters induced the addition of 3 further courses. At present, the patient is in complete clinical and hematological remission after 200 days. This case confirms that Rituximab may be a safe and useful tool to treat AHA and, a prolonged administration can overcome the initial resistance. However, the precise position of this drug in the therapeutic strategy (first or second-line, alone or in combination with other drugs) remains to be established and warrants further investigation.


Title #103: The Role of the Carotid Doppler Examination in the Evaluation of Atherosclerotic Changes in β-Thalassemia Patients.
PMID: 25745550
Authors: Hoda A HA. Abdelsamei, Ashraf M AM. El-Sherif, Ahlam M AM. Ismail, Gehan L GL. Abdel Hakeem
Abstract: Iron overload in patients with beta-thalassemia major (BTM) lead to alterations in the arterial structures and the thickness of the carotid arteries. Doppler ultrasound scanning of extra-cranial internal carotid arteries is non-invasive and relatively quick to perform and may identify children at increased risk of stroke that would otherwise be missed. Increased carotid artery intima media thickness (CIMT) is a structural marker for early atherosclerosis and correlates with the vascular risk factors and to the severity and extent of coronary artery disease.


Title #104: Reliability of Different RBC Indices and Formulas in Discriminating between β-Thalassemia Minor and other Microcytic Hypochromic Cases.
PMID: 25745549
Authors: Elahe E. Bordbar, Mehdi M. Taghipour, Beth E BE. Zucconi
Abstract: Different indices and formulas of CBC parameters have been suggested as indicators of early stage screenings to detect couples with β-thalassemia minor (BTMi). In this study, we evaluated the accuracy of five previous published formulas and compared them to our new formula (│80-MCV│×│27-MCH│) in screening of β-thalassemia.


Title #105: Clinicopathological profile of salmonella typhi and paratyphi infections presenting as Fever of unknown origin in a tropical country.
PMID: 25745548
Authors: Nayyar N. Iqbal, Aneesh A. Basheer, Sudhagar S. Mookkappan, Anita A. Ramdas, Renu G'Boy RG. Varghese, Somanath S. Padhi, Bhairappa B. Shrimanth, Saranya S. Chidambaram, S. S. Anandhalakshmi, Reba R. Kanungo
Abstract: Enteric fever, a common infection in the tropics and endemic to India, often manifests as an acute febrile illness. However, presentation as fever of unknown origin (FUO) is not uncommon in tropical countries.


Title #106: Successful Management of Pregnancy and Hepatic Toxicity in a CML Female Patient Treated with Nilotinib: a Case Report and a Review.
PMID: 25745547
Authors: Domenico D. Santorsola, Elisabetta E. Abruzzese
Abstract: We report a case of a young patient with chronic viral hepatitis HBV infection, diagnosed with CML in March 2006 and treated with imatinib 400mg/die as first line therapy with concomitant Lamivudine. Patient obtained a complete hematologic response (CHR) in 2 months, complete cytogenetic response (CCyR) in six months and major molecular response (MMR) at 24 months. After three years of treatment, she became imatinib intolerant and resistant. In November 2009 patient started nilotinib 400mg/BID. Patient tolerated well the new molecule never experiencing hepatic impairment. After switching to nilotinib, she reached in 12 months transcript reduction more than 3 log (MMR). Even if patient had been informed of the need of continuous therapy and to use effective methods of contraception during tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) treatment, in 2012 she decided to plan a pregnancy. In August 2012 a MR4 was documented, and treatment discontinued before starting pregnancy. She was placed on interferon and observed throughout her pregnancy. The disease remained stable achieving an undetectable transcript level; she delivered a healthy boy in September 2013. Treatment with nilotinib was re-started three months after delivery, and she is still in molecular remission (MR5). A complete discussion of the case and the available literature is presented.


Title #107: Study of serum haptoglobin level and its relation to erythropoietic activity in Beta thalassemia children.
PMID: 25745546
Authors: Seham M SM. Ragab, Manal A MA. Safan, Eman A EA. Badr
Abstract: Serum haptoglobin (Hp) is a reliable marker for hemolysis regardless the inflammatory state.


Title #108: Refractory thrombocytopenia and neutropenia: a diagnostic challenge.
PMID: 25745545
Authors: Emmanuel E. Gyan, François F. Dreyfus, Pierre P. Fenaux
Abstract: The 2008 WHO classification identified refractory cytopenia with unilineage dysplasia (RCUD) as a composite entity encompassing refractory anemia, refractory thrombocytopenia (RT), and refractory neutropenia (RN), characterized by 10% or more dysplastic cells in the bone marrow respective lineage. The diagnosis of RT and RN is complicated by several factors. Diagnosing RT first requires exclusion of familial thrombocytopenia, chronic auto-immune thrombocytopenia, concomitant medications, viral infections, or hypersplenism. Diagnosis of RN should also be made after ruling out differential diagnoses such as ethnic or familial neutropenia, as well as acquired, drug-induced, infection-related or malignancy-related neutropenia. An accurate quantification of dysplasia should be performed in order to distinguish RT or RN from the provisional entity named idiopathic cytopenia of unknown significance (ICUS). Cytogenetic analysis, and possibly in the future somatic mutation analysis (of genes most frequently mutated in MDS), and flow cytometry analysis aberrant antigen expression on myeloid cells may help in this differential diagnosis. Importantly, we and others found that, while isolated neutropenia and thrombocytopenia are not rare in MDS, those patients can generally be classified (according to WHO 2008 classification) as refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia or refractory anemia with excess blasts, while RT and RN (according to WHO 2008) are quite rare. These results suggest in particular that identification of RT and RN as distinct entities could be reconsidered in future WHO classification updates.


Title #109: Osteolytic Bone Lesions - A Rare Presentation of AML M6.
PMID: 25745544
Authors: N. N. Geetha, K P KP. Sreelesh, M J MJ. Priya, V S VS. Lali, N. N. Rekha
Abstract: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) M6 is a rare form of AML accounting for < 5 % of all AML. Extramedullary involvement is very rarely seen in this entity. Skeletal lesion has not been described in AML M6 before. We discuss the case of a 17 year old boy with AML M6, who presented with osteolytic lesion of right humerus. He was treated with induction and consolidation chemotherapy. The present case is the first report in literature of AML M6 presenting with skeletal lesions.


Title #110: Current role of autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplantation for relapsed and refractory hodgkin lymphoma.
PMID: 25745542
Authors: Luca L. Castagna, Carmelo C. Carlo-Stella, Rita R. Mazza, Armando A. Santoro
Abstract: Classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) is a relatively rare disease, with approximately 9,200 estimated new cases and 1,200 estimated deaths per year in the United States. First-line chemo-radiotherapy leads to cure rates approaching 80% in patients with advanced-stage disease. However, 25 to 30% of these patients are not cured with chemotherapy alone (i.e., the ABVD regimen) and show either primary refractoriness to chemotherapy, early disease relapse or late disease relapse. Second-line salvage high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) and autologous stem cell transplantation (SCT) have an established role in the management of refractory/relapsed cHL, leading to durable responses in approximately 50% of relapsed patients and a minority of refractory patients. However, due to the poor responses to second-line salvage chemotherapy and dismal long-term disease control of primary refractory and early relapsed patients, their treatment represents an unmet medical need. Allogeneic SCT represents, by far, the only strategy with a curative potential for these patients; however, as discussed in this review, it's role in cHL remains controversial. Despite a general consensus that early relapsed and primary refractory patients represent a clinical challenge requiring effective treatments to achieve long-term disease control, there has been no consensus on the optimal therapy that should be offered to these patients. This review will briefly discuss the clinical results and the main issues regarding autologous SCT as well as the current role of allogeneic SCT.


Title #111: Drug Therapy in the Progressed CML Patient with multi-TKI Failure.
PMID: 25745541
Authors: Ibrahim C IC. Haznedaroglu
Abstract: The aim of this paper is to outline pharmacotherapy of the 'third-line management of CML' (progressive disease course after sequential TKI drugs). Current management of CML with multi-TKI failure is reviewed. TKI (bosutinib, ponatinib, dasatinib, nilotinib) and non-TKI (omacetaxine mepussecinate, IFN or PEG-IFN) drugs are available. The literature search was made in PubMed with particular focus on the clinical trials, recommendations, guidelines and expert opinions, as well as international recommendations. Progressing CML disease with multi-TKI failure should be treated with alloSCT based on the availability of the donor and EBMT transplant risk scores. The TKI and non-TKI drugs shall be used to get best promising (hematological, cytogenetic, molecular) response. During the CP-CML phase of multi-TKI failure, 2nd generation TKIs (nilotinib or dasatinib) should be tried if not previously utilized. Bosutinib and ponatinib (3rd-generation TKIs) should be administered in double- or triple-TKI (imatinib and nilotinib and dasatinib) resistant patients. The presence of T315I mutation at any phase requires ponatinib or omacetaxine mepussecinate therapy before allografting. During the AP/BC-CML phase of multi-TKI failure, the most powerful TKI available (ponatinib or dasatinib if not previously used) together with chemotherapy should be given before alloSCT. Monitoring of CML disease and drug off-target risks (particularly vascular thrombotic events) are vital.


Title #112: Factors influencing adherence to imatinib in Indian chronic myeloid leukemia patients: a cross-sectional study.
PMID: 25745540
Authors: Jyotsna J. Kapoor, Narendra N. Agrawal, Rayaz R. Ahmed, Sanjeev Kumar SK. Sharma, Anshul A. Gupta, Dinesh D. Bhurani
Abstract: Adherence to imatinib(IM) is of utmost importance in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) to maximise treatment effectiveness. The main objective is to measure adherence to IM by evaluating individual patient characteristics, personal behaviour and, treatment related psychological factors influencing adherence behaviour. Hundred patients receiving IM were analysed for adherence behaviour using 9 item Morisky Medication Adherence Scale (9-MMAS). Various factors were assessed for their impact on adherence behaviour. These factors were age, gender, duration of treatment, frequency and dosing of treatment, use of tobacco and alcohol, educational qualification, employment status, monthly income, side effects, financial assistance in treatment, social support, knowledge about medicine and disease, concomitant drug burden, polypharmacy, physician patient interaction, patient educational sessions and prevalence of depression. Seventy five percent of patients were found to be adherent. On univariate analysis, prevalence of depression (p<0.000001), moderate severe depression (p<0.000001), concomitant drug burden (p=0.036) and monthly income (p=0.015) were found to be significantly influencing adherence. The final multivariate model retained prevalence of depression with OR= 10.367 (95% CI, 3.112-34.538) as independent predictor of adherence to therapy. This study suggests that identification and treatment of depression among CML patients may further enhance adherence to IM therapy.


Title #113: Pre-Practicum Training in Professional Psychology to Close the Research-Practice Gap: Changing Attitudes Towards Evidence-Based Practice.
PMID: 25745525
Authors: Sarah Kate SK. Bearman, Melanie M. Wadkins, Abby A. Bailin, Greta G. Doctoroff
Abstract: Despite the rapid proliferation of mental health interventions with proven benefit for youth, empirically supported interventions (ESIs) are underutilized in most service settings. Treatment outcome studies in these community-based settings suggest that the majority of youth do not show improvement, underscoring the importance of addressing the gap between research and practice. Clinician attitudes toward evidence-based practice (EBP) may limit the use of ESIs, and efforts to address these attitudes with post-graduate training pose significant challenges. Pre-practicum training in EBP may address these challenges by familiarizing students with the framework of EBP as well as with the current youth treatment evidence base and the theories and strategies of well-supported interventions. We describe a required EBP course within a professional psychology doctoral program. Forty-two students in two class cohorts completed a measure of attitudes toward EBP prior to the first class and after the final class lecture. Students were predominantly Caucasian women with bachelor's degrees. As expected, over the course of the class, student attitudes became significantly more favorable toward EBP. Students who had previously received a master's degree had more favorable attitudes prior to the class, and students with a prior bachelor's degree showed the greatest change in attitude. The results support the use of pre-practicum training in EBP to improve attitudes toward EBP, which may lead to use of effective practices with clients following training.


Title #114: Artifacts in magnetic resonance imaging.
PMID: 25745524
Authors: Katarzyna K. Krupa, Monika M. Bekiesińska-Figatowska
Abstract: Artifacts in magnetic resonance imaging and foreign bodies within the patient's body may be confused with a pathology or may reduce the quality of examinations. Radiologists are frequently not informed about the medical history of patients and face postoperative/other images they are not familiar with. A gallery of such images was presented in this manuscript. A truncation artifact in the spinal cord could be misinterpreted as a syrinx. Motion artifacts caused by breathing, cardiac movement, CSF pulsation/blood flow create a ghost artifact which can be reduced by patient immobilization, or cardiac/respiratory gating. Aliasing artifacts can be eliminated by increasing the field of view. An artificially hyperintense signal on FLAIR images can result from magnetic susceptibility artifacts, CSF/vascular pulsation, motion, but can also be found in patients undergoing MRI examinations while receiving supplemental oxygen. Metallic and other foreign bodies which may be found on and in patients' bodies are the main group of artifacts and these are the focus of this study: e.g. make-up, tattoos, hairbands, clothes, endovascular embolization, prostheses, surgical clips, intraorbital and other medical implants, etc. Knowledge of different types of artifacts and their origin, and of possible foreign bodies is necessary to eliminate them or to reduce their negative influence on MR images by adjusting acquisition parameters. It is also necessary to take them into consideration when interpreting the images. Some proposals of reducing artifacts have been mentioned. Describing in detail the procedures to avoid or limit the artifacts would go beyond the scope of this paper but technical ways to reduce them can be found in the cited literature.


Title #115: Thoracic splenosis after a gunshot: diffusion-weighted MRI findings.
PMID: 25745523
Authors: Onur O. Tutar, Selim S. Bakan, Cesur C. Samanci, Fuat F. Nurili, Haluk Burcak HB. Sayman, Canan C. Akman
Abstract: Intrathoracic splenosis is a rare condition resulting from concomitant rupture of the spleen and left hemidiaphragm after a traumatic event involving the spleen and the diaphragma and is defined as autotransplantation of splenic tissue in thorax.


Title #116: Pseudoaneurysm Arising from Mitral Aortic Intervalvular Fibrosa (P-MAIVF) Communicating with Left Atrium (LA): Multiple Detector Computed Tomography (MDCT) Evaluation.
PMID: 25745522
Authors: Kartik K. Mittal, Rajat R. Agrawal, Amit K AK. Dey, Rohit R. Gadewar, Divyesh D. Dadhania, Priya P. Hira
Abstract: The entity pseudoaneurysm arising from the mitral aortic intervalvular fibrosa (P-MAIVF) is a rare cardiac finding caused by multiple factors. This entity is usually diagnosed with echocardiography and confirmed with cardiac computed tomography (CT).


Title #117: Bone involvement by adenocarcinoma of the uterine cervix: a rare entity.
PMID: 25745521
Authors: Vincenzina V. Crisci, Pier Paolo PP. Mainenti, Fabio F. Corvino, Rossella R. Lauria, Simone S. Maurea
Abstract: Adenocarcinoma is the second most frequent cancer of the uterine cervix after squamous carcinoma, and the most frequent histotype is the mucinous one. Endo-cervical adenocarcinoma accounts for about 10-30% of all cervical cancers and clinically the lesion can be asymptomatic or, more frequently, presenting with anomalous bleeding and/or vaginal discharge.


Title #118: Brain magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance spectroscopy findings of children with kernicterus.
PMID: 25745520
Authors: Sahabettin S. Sarı, Alpaslan A. Yavuz, Aabdussamet A. Batur, Aydın A. Bora, Huseyin H. Caksen
Abstract: The term kernicterus, or bilirubin encephalopathy, is used to describe pathological bilirubin staining of the basal ganglia, brain stem, and cerebellum, and is associated with hyperbilirubinemia. Kernicterus generally occurs in untreated hyperbilirubinemia or cases where treatment is delayed. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based studies have shown characteristic findings in kernicterus. The objective of our study was to describe the role of (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) in demonstrating these metabolic changes and to review conventional MRI findings of kernicterus.


Title #119: Molecular cloning using polymerase chain reaction, an educational guide for cellular engineering.
PMID: 25745516
Authors: Sayed Shahabuddin SS. Hoseini, Martin G MG. Sauer
Abstract: Over the last decades, molecular cloning has transformed biological sciences. Having profoundly impacted various areas such as basic science, clinical, pharmaceutical, and environmental fields, the use of recombinant DNA has successfully started to enter the field of cellular engineering. Here, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) represents one of the most essential tools. Due to the emergence of novel and efficient PCR reagents, cloning kits, and software, there is a need for a concise and comprehensive protocol that explains all steps of PCR cloning starting from the primer design, performing PCR, sequencing PCR products, analysis of the sequencing data, and finally the assessment of gene expression. It is the aim of this methodology paper to provide a comprehensive protocol with a viable example for applying PCR in gene cloning.


Title #120: TGF-β1 conjugated chitosan collagen hydrogels induce chondrogenic differentiation of human synovium-derived stem cells.
PMID: 25745515
Authors: Jinku J. Kim, Brian B. Lin, Soyon S. Kim, Bogyu B. Choi, Denis D. Evseenko, Min M. Lee
Abstract: Unlike bone tissue, articular cartilage regeneration has not been very successful and has many challenges ahead. We have previously developed injectable hydrogels using photopolymerizable chitosan (MeGC) that supported growth of chondrocytes. In this study, we demonstrate a biofunctional hydrogel for specific use in cartilage regeneration by conjugating transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), a well-documented chondrogenic factor, to MeGC hydrogels impregnating type II collagen (Col II), one of the major cartilaginous extracellular matrix (ECM) components.


Title #121: Mental disorders and criminal re-referrals in juveniles who sexually offended.
PMID: 25745514
Authors: Lisette A LA. 't Hart-Kerkhoffs, Cyril C. Boonmann, Theo Ah TA. Doreleijers, Lucres Mc LM. Jansen, Anton A. Ph van Wijk, Robert Rjm RR. Vermeiren
Abstract: To investigate the prevalence of mental disorders in (subgroups of) juvenile suspects who sexually offended (JSOs), and its relation with criminal re-referrals five to eight years later.


Title #122: Detection of rabbit IgG by using functional magnetic particles and an enzyme-conjugated antibody with a homemade magnetic microplate.
PMID: 25745512
Authors: Hweiyan H. Tsai, Yi-Hsuan YH. Lu, Huan-Xuan HX. Liao, Shih-Wei SW. Wu, Feng-Yih FY. Yu, Chwan Bor CB. Fuh
Abstract: The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) has been used for diagnosing medical and plant pathologies. In addition, it is used for quality-control evaluations in various industries. The ELISA is the simplest method for obtaining excellent results; however, it is time consuming because the immunoreagents interact only on the contact surfaces. Antibody-labeled magnetic particles can be dispersed in a solution to yield a pseudohomogeneous reaction with antigens which improved the efficiency of immunoreaction, and can be easily separated from the unreactive substances by applying a magnetic force. We used a homemade magnetic microplate, functional magnetic particles (MPs) and enzyme-labeled secondary antibody to perform the sandwich ELISA successfully.


Title #123: Anger tendency may be associated with duration of illness in panic disorder.
PMID: 25745511
Authors: Nagisa N. Sugaya, Eiji E. Yoshida, Shin S. Yasuda, Mamoru M. Tochigi, Kunio K. Takei, Takeshi T. Otowa, Tadashi T. Umekage, Yoshiaki Y. Konishi, Yuji Y. Sakano, Shinobu S. Nomura, Yuji Y. Okazaki, Hisanobu H. Kaiya, Hisashi H. Tanii, Tsukasa T. Sasaki
Abstract: Several studies have reported an increased tendency towards anger in patients with panic disorder (PD). If this propensity for anger arises from the pathological process of PD, it may be associated with the duration of the illness. The present study therefore examined the relationship between duration of PD and the personality tendency to experience anger in PD patients.


Title #124: Development of a self-management intervention for employees with complaints of the arm, neck and/or shoulder (CANS): a focus group study with experts.
PMID: 25745509
Authors: Nathan N. Hutting, Josephine A JA. Engels, J Bart JB. Staal, Yvonne F YF. Heerkens, Maria W G MW. Nijhuis-van der Sanden
Abstract: Many people suffer from complaints of the arm, neck and/or shoulder (CANS). The complaints are persistent and there is a need for intervention programs for those with longstanding CANS. Studies suggest that a behavioural change is needed in employees with CANS. A self-management program with an add-on eHealth module might be an effective option to achieve the behavioural change needed to manage the complaints in employees with CANS. The aim of this study was to determine the content and strategies of the intervention and to gain insight into possible barriers and facilitators for implementation. Therefore, we examined the views of experts on the problems and characteristics associated with employees with CANS as well as their opinion on a self-management program consisting of self-management sessions and an eHealth module.


Title #125: A multidimensional approach to measuring well-being in students: Application of the PERMA framework.
PMID: 25745508
Authors: Margaret L ML. Kern, Lea E LE. Waters, Alejandro A. Adler, Mathew A MA. White
Abstract: Seligman recently introduced the PERMA model with five core elements of psychological well-being: positive emotions, engagement, relationships, meaning, and accomplishment. We empirically tested this multidimensional theory with 516 Australian male students (age 13-18). From an extensive well-being assessment, we selected a subset of items theoretically relevant to PERMA. Factor analyses recovered four of the five PERMA elements, and two ill-being factors (depression and anxiety). We then explored the nomological net surrounding each factor by examining cross-sectional associations with life satisfaction, hope, gratitude, school engagement, growth mindset, spirituality, physical vitality, physical activity, somatic symptoms, and stressful life events. Factors differentially related to these correlates, offering support for the multidimensional approach to measuring well-being. Directly assessing subjective well-being across multiple domains offers the potential for schools to more systematically understand and promote well-being.


Title #126: Association of alcohol consumption and components of metabolic syndrome among people in rural China.
PMID: 25745507
Authors: Jing J. Xiao, Jian-Ping JP. Huang, Guang-Fei GF. Xu, De-Xi DX. Chen, Gui-Yun GY. Wu, Min M. Zhang, Yi Y. Shen, Hui H. Cai
Abstract: Accumulative evidence in the literature suggests alcohol consumption is a protective factor of the metabolic syndrome (MS). However, few studies investigated the relationship between alcohol consumption and components of MS. We examined association of several types of alcoholic beverage with components of MS among people in rural China.


Title #127: Sex-specific determinants of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 concentrations in an elderly German cohort: a cross-sectional study.
PMID: 25745506
Authors: Alexandra A. Jungert, Monika M. Neuhäuser-Berthold
Abstract: Considering the suggested link between vitamin D insufficiency and several chronic diseases, attention should be given to approaches for improving vitamin D status. Elderly subjects are regarded as a high-risk group for developing an insufficient vitamin D status. Socioeconomic, dietary, lifestyle and environmental factors are considered as influencing factors, whereupon sex differences in predictors of vitamin D status are rarely investigated. The purpose of this study is to identify the main predictors of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 [25(OH)D3] concentrations in elderly subjects by taking into account potential sex differences.


Title #128: The flavonoid, naringenin, decreases adipose tissue mass and attenuates ovariectomy-associated metabolic disturbances in mice.
PMID: 25745505
Authors: Jia-Yu JY. Ke, Kara L KL. Kliewer, Essam M EM. Hamad, Rachel M RM. Cole, Kimerly A KA. Powell, Rebecca R RR. Andridge, Shana R SR. Straka, Lisa D LD. Yee, Martha A MA. Belury
Abstract: Adverse metabolic changes associated with loss of ovarian function increase the risk of developing metabolic syndrome and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in postmenopausal women. Naringenin improves metabolic disturbances in vitro and in vivo. In the present study, we tested the effects of naringenin on metabolic disturbances resulting from estrogen deficiency in ovariectomized mice.


Title #129: Frequency and characterization of celiac ganglia diagnosed on fine-needle aspiration.
PMID: 25745503
Authors: Ehab A EA. ElGabry, Sara E SE. Monaco, Liron L. Pantanowitz
Abstract: Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS)-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) is frequently used to sample intra-abdominal lesions and lymph nodes. Celiac ganglia normally located near the celiac artery may be sampled during these procedures. The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of detection and cytologic findings of celiac ganglia diagnosed on FNA.


Title #130: Pulmonary artery intimal sarcoma diagnosed using endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration.
PMID: 25745502
Authors: Nancy P NP. Caraway, Davide D. Salina, Michael T MT. Deavers, Rodolfo R. Morice, Gene G. Landon
Abstract: Intimal sarcoma of the pulmonary artery is a rare intraluminal malignant neoplasm that has an aggressive biological behavior, and early diagnosis may improve patient outcome. We describe a case of pulmonary artery intimal sarcoma diagnosed on cytologic material obtained by endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) biopsy with rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE). The aspirate showed loosely cohesive clusters of pleomorphic malignant spindled and epithelioid cells. An immunostain panel did not demonstrate any definitive mesenchymal or epithelial differentiation. The tumor's intraluminal origin was supported by radiographic imaging studies. Subsequently, the patient received preoperative chemotherapy and underwent tumor resection with reconstruction. This report describes the cytomorphologic features of this rare intravascular tumor and demonstrates how EBUS-TBNA with ROSE was instrumental in obtaining optimal cytologic sampling for ancillary studies, thus expediting the management.


Title #131: An assessment of adverse drug reactions among HIV positive patients receiving antiretroviral treatment in South Africa.
PMID: 25745501
Authors: Lieketseng J LJ. Masenyetse, Samuel Om SO. Manda, Henry G HG. Mwambi
Abstract: Antiretroviral treatment (ART) has been effective in reducing HIV/AIDS related morbidity and mortality. However, the use and uptake of ART has resulted in adverse reactions, due mainly to the medicine's toxicity and interactions with other medicines. The timing of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) among these patients is a critical public health issue for antiretroviral (ARV) treatment adherence and retention. Reliable monitoring of HIV patients on ART is through a structured pharmacovigilance surveillance system. However, recurrent nature of these data pose challenges in their analyses. This study aimed at modelling the timing of ADR events in HIV patients on ART using correlated time-to-event models.


Title #132: Effect of Vitamin D Supplementation on Glucose Control and Inflammatory Response in Type II Diabetes: A Double Blind, Randomized Clinical Trial.
PMID: 25745497
Authors: Mohammed E ME. Al-Sofiani, Anwar A. Jammah, Michael M. Racz, Rajab A RA. Khawaja, Rana R. Hasanato, Hassan A N HA. El-Fawal, Shaker A SA. Mousa, Darius L DL. Mason
Abstract: Diabetes mellitus (DM) and vitamin D deficiency are major health concerns around the world. Evidence suggests a possible role of vitamin D in improvement of insulin secretion and sensitivity.


Title #133: Effect of camel milk on blood sugar and lipid profile of patients with type 2 diabetes: a pilot clinical trial.
PMID: 25745496
Authors: Hanieh Sadat HS. Ejtahed, Amir A. Niasari Naslaji, Parvin P. Mirmiran, Maryam M. Zraif Yeganeh, Mehdi M. Hedayati, Fereidoun F. Azizi, Aliakbar A. Moosavi Movahedi
Abstract: It has been shown that camel milk consumption has a definite decreasing effect on the prevalence of diabetes. However, most of these studies were conducted on patients with type 1 diabetes, whereas studies on patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are limited. In vitro experiments have shown that camel milk was able to decrease blood glucose concentration.


Title #134: The effects of vitamin d on insulin release from isolated islets of rats.
PMID: 25745495
Authors: Sajad S. Jeddi, Leila L. Syedmoradi, Fatemeh F. Bagheripour, Asghar A. Ghasemi
Abstract: Vitamin D (vit D) affects glucose metabolism. Receptors of vitamin D have been identified in β cells and studies show that vitamin D deficiency reduces glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS).


Title #135: Antimullerian hormone and its receptor gene expression in prenatally androgenized female rats.
PMID: 25745494
Authors: Zahra Z. Daneshian, Fahimeh F. Ramezani Tehrani, Maryam M. Zarkesh, Mahsa M. Norooz Zadeh, Reza R. Mahdian, Azita A. Zadeh Vakili
Abstract: Anti-mullerian hormone (AMH) levels reflect the number of small antral follicles in ovaries and expression changes of AMH and its receptor are suspected to be involved in the pathogenesis of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).


Title #136: Effect of mobile phone short text messages on glycemic control in type 2 diabetes.
PMID: 25745493
Authors: Bassam B. Bin Abbas, Abdullah A. Al Fares, Musleh M. Jabbari, Abdelmoneim A. El Dali, Fahad F. Al Orifi
Abstract: Mobile phone text messaging has rapidly become a socially popular form of communication. Several studies showed that mobile phone might offer a useful means of providing information between clinic visits and might increase adherence to diabetes therapy regimens.


Title #137: A case report of thyroid carcinoma confined to ovary and concurrently occult in the thyroid: is conservative treatment always advised?
PMID: 25745492
Authors: Nunzia N. Brusca, Susanna Carlotta SC. Del Duca, Rita R. Salvatori, Antonio A. D'Agostini, Pina P. Cannas, Maria Giulia MG. Santaguida, Camilla C. Virili, Loredana L. Bianchi, Lucilla L. Gargano, Marco M. Centanni
Abstract: Struma ovarii is an ovarian teratoma, represented in more than 50% by thyroid tissue. Five percent of struma ovarii cases have been proven to be malignant and, as in the thyroid gland, papillary thyroid carcinoma is the most common histotype arising in struma ovarii. Because of the unusual occurrence of this tumor, its management and follow-up after pelvic surgery is still controversial. Usually, total thyroidectomy followed by radioiodine treatment is the choice treatment in metastatic malignant struma ovarii, while these procedures are still controversial in non-metastatic thyroid cancer arising in struma ovarii.


Title #138: The effect of ghrelin and estradiol on mean concentration of thyroid hormones.
PMID: 25745491
Authors: Fatemeh F. Kordi, Homayoun H. Khazali
Abstract: Ghrelin is a novel peptide hormone that has GH releasing activity and also other endocrine and metabolic functions. It can also increase food intake and decrease T3 and T4 concentrations. Several parameters of hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis function are modulated by 17β-estradiol (E2).


Title #139: Anti-thyroid drugs-related myopathy: is carbimazole the real culprit?
PMID: 25745490
Authors: Chiu Chi CC. Tsang, Wai Shan WS. Hui, Kwun Man KM. Lo, Jonas Hon Ming JH. Yeung, Yuk Lun YL. Cheng
Abstract: Anti-thyroid drugs (ATDs)-related myopathy is rarely reported in literature, but once developed, it can cause significant morbidity to patient.


Title #140: Thyroid function in pregnancy and its influences on maternal and fetal outcomes.
PMID: 25745488
Authors: Forough F. Saki, Mohammad Hossein MH. Dabbaghmanesh, Seyede Zahra SZ. Ghaemi, Sedighe S. Forouhari, Gholamhossein G. Ranjbar Omrani, Marzieh M. Bakhshayeshkaram
Abstract: Maternal thyroid function alters during pregnancy. Inadequate adaptation to these changes results in thyroid dysfunction and pregnancy complications.


Title #141: Association of marital status and marital transition with metabolic syndrome: tehran lipid and glucose study.
PMID: 25745487
Authors: Somayeh S. Hosseinpour-Niazi, Parvin P. Mirmiran, Farhad F. Hosseinpanah, Arefeh A. Fallah-Ghohroudy, Fereidoun F. Azizi
Abstract: Most existing reports indicate that body weight gradually increases following marital status and thereby enhances health status and decreases mortality; however, the association between marital status and the metabolic syndrome (MetS) has not been thoroughly investigated in a longitudinal study.


Title #142: Association of mean platelet volume with androgens and insulin resistance in nonobese patients with polycystic ovary syndrome.
PMID: 25745486
Authors: Bercem Aycicek BA. Dogan, Ayse A. Arduc, Mazhar Muslum MM. Tuna, Ersen E. Karakılıc, Iffet I. Dagdelen, Yasemin Y. Tutuncu, Dilek D. Berker, Serdar S. Guler
Abstract: Mean platelet volume (MPV) is generally accepted as a new marker of cardiovascular disease risk in several studies.


Title #143: Anti-hyperglycemic and insulin sensitizer effects of turmeric and its principle constituent curcumin.
PMID: 25745485
Authors: Zeinab Z. Ghorbani, Azita A. Hekmatdoost, Parvin P. Mirmiran
Abstract: Turmeric is obtained from the plant Curcuma longa L; its major constituent, curcumin, is a polyphenol with multiple effects which can modulate some signaling pathways.


Title #144: Impact of Plasma Glucose Level at the Time of Fluorodeoxyglucose Administration on the Accuracy of FDG-PET/CT in the Diagnosis of Pancreatic Lesions.
PMID: 25745484
Authors: Alireza A. Hamidian Jahromi, Mohammad Kazem MK. Fallahzadeh, Amol A. Takalkar, Jean J. Sheng, Gazi G. Zibari, Hosein H. Shokouh Amiri
Abstract: High fasting plasma glucose (FPG) levels before fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) administration for positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) might affect the accuracy of 18-fluoro-deoxy-glucose-positron emission tomography-computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) in diagnosis of pancreatic lesions. Current guidelines require FPG levels of < 200 mg/dL before FDG administration; however, the literature on the effect of FPG levels of < 200 mg/dL on the accuracy of FDG-PET/CT is scarce.


Title #145: Desmopressin lyophilisate for the treatment of central diabetes insipidus: first experience in very young infants.
PMID: 25745483
Authors: Kathleen K. De Waele, Martine M. Cools, Ann A. De Guchtenaere, Johan J. Van de Walle, Ann A. Raes, Sara S. Van Aken, Kris K. De Coen, Piet P. Vanhaesebrouck, Jean J. De Schepper
Abstract: In neonates and small infants, early diagnosis of central diabetes insipidus (CDI) and treatment with desmopressin in low doses (avoiding severe hypo- or hypernatremia) are important to prevent associated high morbidity and mortality in this particular age group.


Title #146: Invasive thyroid angiosarcoma with a favorable outcome.
PMID: 25745482
Authors: Joana J. Couto, Raquel G RG. Martins, Ana Paula AP. Santos, Joana J. Matos, Isabel I. Torres
Abstract: Thyroid angiosarcoma is a malignant neoplasm, which usually shows local aggressive behavior and associated with a high recurrence rate. It was originally described in the Alpine region and extremely rare in other parts of the world.


Title #147: Unruptured pregnancy in a noncommunicating rudimentary horn at 37 weeks with a live fetus: a case report.
PMID: 25745480
Authors: Chen C. Cheng, Weiwei W. Tang, Lei L. Zhang, Mei M. Luo, Meihua M. Huang, Xiuling X. Wu, Guiping G. Wan
Abstract: We report an extremely rare case of an unruptured non-communicating rudimentary horn full-term pregnancy. A woman who had a uterine malformation was misdiagnosed as uterus didelphys and gave birth to a live, healthy fetus. The correct diagnosis was not made until cesarean section at 37 4/7 weeks. The case suggests that women who are pregnant in a rudimentary horn could obtain a full-term delivery and give birth to a live and healthy baby.


Title #148: Surgical outcomes of mini-open Wiltse approach and conventional open approach in patients with single-segment thoracolumbar fractures without neurologic injury.
PMID: 25745479
Authors: Haijun H. Li, Lei L. Yang, Hao H. Xie, Lipeng L. Yu, Haifeng H. Wei, Xiaojian X. Cao
Abstract: This study aimed to introduce a novel mini-open pedicle screw fixation technique via Wiltse approach, and compared it with the traditional posterior open method. A total of 72 cases of single-segment thoracolumbar fractures without neurologic injury underwent pedicle screw fixation via two different approaches. Among them, 37 patients were treated using posterior open surgery, and 35 patients received mini-open operation via Wiltse approach. Crew placement accuracy rate, operative time, blood loss, postoperative drainage, postoperative hospitalization time, radiation exposure time, postoperative improvement in R value, Cobb's angle and visual analog scale (VAS) scores of the two methods were compared. There were no significant differences in the accuracy rate of pedicle screw placement, radiation exposure and postoperative R value and Cobb's angle improvement between the two groups. However, the mini-open method had obvious advantages over the conventional open method in operative time, blood loss, postoperative drainage, postoperative hospitalization time, and postoperative improvement in VAS. The mini-open pedicle screw technique could be applied in treatment of single-segment thoracolumbar fracture without neurologic injury and had advantages of less tissue trauma, short operative and rehabilitative time on the premise of guaranteed accuracy rate and no increased radiation exposure.


Title #149: Portal vein arterialization promotes liver regeneration after extended partial hepatectomy in a rat model.
PMID: 25745478
Authors: Jian J. Li, Chaonong C. Cai, Hui H. Guo, Xiaodong X. Guan, Lukun L. Yang, Yuechan Y. Li, Yanhua Y. Zhu, Peiping P. Li, Xialei X. Liu, Baimeng B. Zhang
Abstract: In the current study, we sought to establish a novel rat model of portal vein arterialization (PVA) and evaluate its impact on liver regeneration after extended partial hepatectomy (PH). A total of 105 Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to three groups: 68% hepatectomy (the PH group), portal arterialization after 68% hepatectomy (the PVA group), and right nephrectomy only (the control group). Liver regeneration rate (LRR), 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling index, and liver functions were assessed on postoperative day 2, 7, 14 and 28. The 28-day survival rates were compared among the three groups. The 28-day survival rates were similar in all groups (P  =  0.331), and the anastomotic patency was 100%. The LRR in the PVA group was significantly higher than that of the PH group within postoperative 14 days (P < 0.05). The PVA and PH group had increased serum alanine aminotransferase levels (232 ± 61 U/L and 212 ± 53 U/L, respectively) compared with the control group (101 ± 13 U/L) on postoperative day 2, whereas from postoperative day 7 to day 28 there were no differences among the three groups. Serum albumin values were higher after the PVA procedure within postoperative day 14, which gradually became comparable on postoperative day 28 among the three groups. The peaks of BrdU labeling index appeared on postoperative day 2 in all rats, and the PVA procedure was associated with increased BrdU labeling index from postoperative day 7 to 28. The 28-day survival of the PVA rats was comparable. Our findings demonstrate that the PVA procedure utilizing portal vein trunk-renal artery microvascular reconstruction promotes remnant liver regeneration and confers beneficial effects on maintaining and even optimizing liver function after extended partial hepatectomy in rats.


Title #150: Prevalence of enteric pathogen-associated community gastroenteritis among kindergarten children in Gaza.
PMID: 25745477
Authors: Nahed Al NA. Laham, Mansour M. Elyazji, Rohaifa R. Al-Haddad, Fouad F. Ridwan
Abstract: Gastroenteritis is considered as one of the leading causes of illness and death in children under 5 years age, especially in developing countries. It is one of the major public health problems among childhood in Gaza strip, Palestine. This study was conducted to determine the prevalence of enteric pathogen-associated community gastroenteritis among kindergarten children in Gaza. A total of 150 stool samples were collected and investigated for parasitic, viral and bacterial pathogens at Al Azhar microbiology laboratories by using standard microbiological and serological procedures. Out of the 150 study samples, the overall percentage of positive stool samples with a known enteric pathogen was 60.6%. The prevalence of different enteric pathogens causing community gastroenteritis among symptomatic cases (88.5%) was significantly higher than the prevalence in asymptomatic carriage (11.1%). The most prevalent isolated enteric pathogens were Entamoeba histolytica (28.0%) and Giardia lamblia (26.7%). Rotavirus was found in 3.1% of symptomatic cases but not detected in asymptomatic carriage. However, adenovirus type 40 and 41 were not detected in any of the study samples. The bacterial enteric pathogens Shigella and Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7 (EHEC) have comparable occurrence as rotavirus (3.1%), meanwhile, Salmonella was not isolated. Mixed infection with more than 1 pathogen was found (11.4%) only among symptomatic cases. Children aged 3-year-old showed the highest prevalence of community gastroenteritis. This study demonstrates a high prevalence of parasitic enteropathogens and a relatively low prevalence of bacterial and viral enteropathogens among kindergarten children living in Gaza city, moreover, children aged 3 years old showed the highest prevalence of isolated enteropathogens.


Title #151: Neuraxial modulation for treatment of VT storm.
PMID: 25745476
Authors: Roderick R. Tung, Kalyanam K. Shivkumar
Abstract: In the hyperadrenergic state of VT storm where shocks are psychologically and physiologically traumatizing, suppression of sympathetic outflow from the organ level of the heart up to higher braincenters plays a significant role in reducing the propensity for VT recurrence. The autonomic nervous system continuously receives input from the heart (afferent signaling), integrates them, and sends efferent signals to modify or maintain cardiac function and arrhythmogenesis. Spinal anesthesia with thoracic epidural infusion of bupivicaine and surgical removal of the sympathetic chain including the stellate ganglion has been shown to decrease recurrences of VT. Excess sympathetic outflow with catecholamine release can be modified with catheter-based renal denervation. The insights provided from animal experiments and in patients that are refractory to conventional therapy have significantly improved our working understanding of the heart as an end organ in the autonomic nervous system.


Title #152: Ventricular tachycardia ablation and substrate modification in ICD patients with electrical storm.
PMID: 25745475
Authors: Minglong M. Chen
Abstract: The electrical storm (ES) is defined as a state of electrical instability with three or more sustained ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) occurring within twenty-four hours, which needs intravenous antiarrhythmic medications and frequent defibrillation. Recently, radiofrequency catheter ablation evolved as a sole therapy to terminate ES in patients with ICD, and the survival has been reported to be improved with successful ablation during follow-up. In this review, we briefly summarize substrate mapping and substrate ablation strategy in patients with ES, and discuss the reason of recurrence after ablation.


Title #153: Trigger elimination of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation by catheter ablation: trigger and substrate modification.
PMID: 25745474
Authors: Akihiko A. Nogami
Abstract: Ventricular fibrillation (VF) is a malignant arrhythmia, usually initiated by a ventricular premature contraction (VPC) during the vulnerable period of cardiac repolarization. Ablation therapy for VF has been described and increasingly reported. Targets for VF triggers are VPCs preceded by Purkinje potentials or from the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) in structurally normal hearts, and VPC triggers preceded by Purkinje potentials in ischemic cardiomyopathy. During the session, mapping should be focused on the earliest activation and determining the earliest potential is the key to a successful ablation. However, suppression of VF can be achieved by not only the elimination of triggering VPCs, but also by substrate modification of possible reentry circuits in the Purkinje network, or between the PA and RVOT. The most important issue before the ablation session is the recording of the 12-lead ECG of the triggering event, which can prove invaluable in regionalizing the origin of the triggering VPC for more detailed mapping. In cases where the VPC is not spontaneous or inducible, ablation may be performed by pace mapping. Further studies are needed to evaluate the precise mechanisms of this arrhythmia.


Title #154: Optimal programming management of ventricular tachycardia storm in ICD patients.
PMID: 25745473
Authors: Zhiyong Z. Qian, Jianghong J. Guo, Zhiyong Z. Zhang, Yao Y. Wang, Xiaofeng X. Hou, Jiangang J. Zou
Abstract: Ventricular tachycardia storm (VTS) is defined as a life-threatening syndrome of three or more separate episodes of ventricular tachycardia (VT) leading to implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) therapy within 24 hours. Patients with VTS have poor outcomes and require immediate medical attention. ICD shocks have been shown to be associated with increased mortality in several studies. Optimal programming in minimization of ICD shocks may decrease mortality. Large controlled trials showed that long detection time and high heart rate detection threshold reduced ICD shock burden without an increase in syncope or death. As a fundamental therapy of ICD, antitachycardia pacing (ATP) can terminate most slow VT with a low risk of acceleration. For fast VT, burst pacing is more effective and less likely to result in acceleration than ramp pacing. One algorithm of optimal programming management during a VTS is presented in the review.


Title #155: Optimal antiarrhythmic drug therapy for electrical storm.
PMID: 25745472
Authors: Dan D. Sorajja, Thomas M TM. Munger, Win-Kuang WK. Shen
Abstract: Electrical storm, defined as 3 or more separate episodes of ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation within 24 hours, carries significant morbidity and mortality. These unstable ventricular arrhythmias have been described with a variety of conditions including ischemic heart disease, structural heart disease, and genetic conditions. While implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation and ablation may be indicated and required, antiarrhythmic medication remains an important adjunctive therapy for these persons.


Title #156: Myocardin in biology and disease.
PMID: 25745471
Authors: Joseph M JM. Miano
Abstract: Myocardin (MYOCD) is a potent transcriptional coactivator that functions primarily in cardiac muscle and smooth muscle through direct contacts with serum response factor (SRF) over cis elements known as CArG boxes found near a number of genes encoding for contractile, ion channel, cytoskeletal, and calcium handling proteins. Since its discovery more than 10 years ago, new insights have been obtained regarding the diverse isoforms of MYOCD expressed in cells as well as the regulation of MYOCD expression and activity through transcriptional, post-transcriptional, and post-translational processes. Curiously, there are a number of functions associated with MYOCD that appear to be independent of contractile gene expression and the CArG-SRF nucleoprotein complex. Further, perturbations in MYOCD gene expression are associated with an increasing number of diseases including heart failure, cancer, acute vessel disease, and diabetes. This review summarizes the various biological and pathological processes associated with MYOCD and offers perspectives to several challenges and future directions for further study of this formidable transcriptional coactivator.


Title #157: Three Medicago MtFUL genes have distinct and overlapping expression patterns during vegetative and reproductive development and 35S:MtFULb accelerates flowering and causes a terminal flower phenotype in Arabidopsis.
PMID: 25745430
Authors: Mauren M. Jaudal, Lulu L. Zhang, Chong C. Che, Joanna J. Putterill
Abstract: The timing of the transition to flowering is carefully controlled by plants in order to optimize sexual reproduction and the ensuing production of seeds, grains, and fruits. The genetic networks that regulate floral induction are best characterized in the temperate eudicot Arabidopsis in which the florigen gene FT plays a major role in promoting the transition to flowering. Legumes are an important plant group, but less is known about the regulation of their flowering time. In the model legume Medicago truncatula (Medicago), a temperate annual plant like Arabidopsis, flowering is induced by prolonged cold (vernalization) followed by long day lengths (LD). Recent molecular-genetic experiments have revealed that a FT-like gene, MtFTa1, is a central regulator of flowering time in Medicago. Here, we characterize the three Medicago FRUITFULL (FUL) MADS transcription factors, MtFULa, MtFULb, and MtFULc using phylogenetic analyses, gene expression profiling through developmental time courses, and functional analyses in transgenic plants. MtFULa and MtFULb have similarity in sequence and expression profiles under inductive environmental conditions during both vegetative and reproductive development while MtFULc is only up regulated in the apex after flowering in LD conditions. Sustained up regulation of MtFULs requires functional MtFTa1 but their transcript levels are not affected during cold treatment. Overexpression of MtFULa and MtFULb promotes flowering in transgenic Arabidopsis plants with an additional terminal flower phenotype on some 35S:MtFULb plants. An increase in transcript levels of the MtFULs was also observed in Medicago plants overexpressing MtFTa1. Our results suggest that the MtFULs are targets of MtFTa1. Overall, this work highlights the conserved functions of FUL-like genes in promoting flowering and other roles in plant development and thus contributes to our understanding of the genetic control of the flowering process in Medicago.


Title #158: Formation and excretion of autophagic plastids (plastolysomes) in Brassica napus embryogenic microspores.
PMID: 25745429
Authors: Verónica V. Parra-Vega, Patricia P. Corral-Martínez, Alba A. Rivas-Sendra, Jose M JM. Seguí-Simarro
Abstract: The change in developmental fate of microspores reprogrammed toward embryogenesis is a complex but fascinating experimental system where microspores undergo dramatic changes derived from the developmental switch. After 40 years of study of the ultrastructural changes undergone by the induced microspores, many questions are still open. In this work, we analyzed the architecture of DNA-containing organelles such as plastids and mitochondria in samples of B. napus isolated microspore cultures covering the different stages before, during, and after the developmental switch. Mitochondria presented a conventional oval or sausage-like morphology for all cell types studied, similar to that found in vivo in other cell types from vegetative parts. Similarly, plastids of microspores before induction and of non-induced cells showed conventional architectures. However, approximately 40% of the plastids of embryogenic microspores presented atypical features such as curved profiles, protrusions, and internal compartments filled with cytoplasm. Three-dimensional reconstructions confirmed that these plastids actually engulf cytoplasm regions, isolating them from the rest of the cell. Acid phosphatase activity was found in them, confirming the lytic activity of these organelles. In addition, digested plastid-like structures were found excreted to the apoplast. All these phenomena seemed transient, since microspore-derived embryos (MDEs) showed conventional plastids. Together, these results strongly suggested that under special circumstances, such as those of the androgenic switch, plastids of embryogenic microspores behave as autophagic plastids (plastolysomes), engulfing cytoplasm for digestion, and then are excreted out of the cytoplasm as part of a cleaning program necessary for microspores to become embryos.


Title #159: Structural basis and functions of abscisic acid receptors PYLs.
PMID: 25745428
Authors: Xing L XL. Zhang, Lun L. Jiang, Qi Q. Xin, Yang Y. Liu, Jian X JX. Tan, Zhong Z ZZ. Chen
Abstract: Abscisic acid (ABA) plays a key role in many developmental processes and responses to adaptive stresses in plants. Recently, a new family of nucleocytoplasmic PYR/PYL/RCAR (PYLs) has been identified as bona fide ABA receptors. PYLs together with protein phosphatases type-2C (PP2Cs), Snf1 (Sucrose-non-fermentation 1)-related kinases subfamily 2 (SnRK2s) and downstream substrates constitute the core ABA signaling network. Generally, PP2Cs inactivate SnRK2s kinases by physical interaction and direct dephosphorylation. Upon ABA binding, PYLs change their conformations and then contact and inhibit PP2Cs, thus activating SnRK2s. Here, we reviewed the recent progress in research regarding the structures of the core signaling pathways of ABA, including the (+)-ABA, (-)-ABA and ABA analogs pyrabactin as well as 6AS perception by PYLs, SnRK2s mimicking PYLs in binding PP2Cs. PYLs inhibited PP2Cs in both the presence and absence of ABA and activated SnRK2s. The present review elucidates multiple ABA signal perception and transduction by PYLs, which might shed light on how to design small chemical compounds for improving plant performance in the future.


Title #160: The green seaweed Ulva: a model system to study morphogenesis.
PMID: 25745427
Authors: Thomas T. Wichard, Bénédicte B. Charrier, Frédéric F. Mineur, John H JH. Bothwell, Olivier De OD. Clerck, Juliet C JC. Coates
Abstract: Green macroalgae, mostly represented by the Ulvophyceae, the main multicellular branch of the Chlorophyceae, constitute important primary producers of marine and brackish coastal ecosystems. Ulva or sea lettuce species are some of the most abundant representatives, being ubiquitous in coastal benthic communities around the world. Nonetheless the genus also remains largely understudied. This review highlights Ulva as an exciting novel model organism for studies of algal growth, development and morphogenesis as well as mutualistic interactions. The key reasons that Ulva is potentially such a good model system are: (i) patterns of Ulva development can drive ecologically important events, such as the increasing number of green tides observed worldwide as a result of eutrophication of coastal waters, (ii) Ulva growth is symbiotic, with proper development requiring close association with bacterial epiphytes, (iii) Ulva is extremely developmentally plastic, which can shed light on the transition from simple to complex multicellularity and (iv) Ulva will provide additional information about the evolution of the green lineage.


Title #161: Localization of causal locus in the genome of the brown macroalga Ectocarpus: NGS-based mapping and positional cloning approaches.
PMID: 25745426
Authors: Bernard B. Billoud, Émilie É. Jouanno, Zofia Z. Nehr, Baptiste B. Carton, Élodie É. Rolland, Sabine S. Chenivesse, Bénédicte B. Charrier
Abstract: Mutagenesis is the only process by which unpredicted biological gene function can be identified. Despite that several macroalgal developmental mutants have been generated, their causal mutation was never identified, because experimental conditions were not gathered at that time. Today, progresses in macroalgal genomics and judicious choices of suitable genetic models make mutated gene identification possible. This article presents a comparative study of two methods aiming at identifying a genetic locus in the brown alga Ectocarpus siliculosus: positional cloning and Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS)-based mapping. Once necessary preliminary experimental tools were gathered, we tested both analyses on an Ectocarpus morphogenetic mutant. We show how a narrower localization results from the combination of the two methods. Advantages and drawbacks of these two approaches as well as potential transfer to other macroalgae are discussed.


Title #162: A common origin for immunity and digestion.
PMID: 25745424
Authors: Nichole A NA. Broderick
Abstract: Historically, the digestive and immune systems were viewed and studied as separate entities. However, there are remarkable similarities and shared functions in both nutrient acquisition and host defense. Here, I propose a common origin for both systems. This association provides a new prism for viewing the emergence and evolution of host defense mechanisms.


Title #163: In silico analysis suggests interaction between Ebola virus and the extracellular matrix.
PMID: 25745423
Authors: Veljko V. Veljkovic, Sanja S. Glisic, Claude P CP. Muller, Matthew M. Scotch, Donald R DR. Branch, Vladimir R VR. Perovic, Milan M. Sencanski, Nevena N. Veljkovic, Alfonso A. Colombatti
Abstract: The worst Ebola virus (EV) outbreak in history has hit Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea hardest and the trend lines in this crisis are grave, and now represents a global public health threat concern. Limited therapeutic and/or prophylactic options are available for people suffering from Ebola virus disease (EVD) and further complicate the situation. Previous studies suggested that the EV glycoprotein (GP) is the main determinant causing structural damage of endothelial cells that triggers the hemorrhagic diathesis, but molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon remains elusive. Using the informational spectrum method (ISM), a virtual spectroscopy method for analysis of the protein-protein interactions, the interaction of GP with endothelial extracellular matrix (ECM) was investigated. Presented results of this in silico study suggest that Elastin Microfibril Interface Located Proteins (EMILINs) are involved in interaction between GP and ECM. This finding could contribute to a better understanding of EV/endothelium interaction and its role in pathogenesis, prevention and therapy of EVD.


Title #164: Snapshot of methanogen sensitivity to temperature in Zoige wetland from Tibetan plateau.
PMID: 25745422
Authors: Li L. Fu, Tianze T. Song, Yahai Y. Lu
Abstract: Zoige wetland in Tibetan plateau represents a cold environment at high altitude where significant methane emission has been observed. However, it remains unknown how the production and emission of CH4 from Zoige wetland will respond to a warming climate. Here we investigated the temperature sensitivity of methanogen community in a Zoige wetland soil under the laboratory incubation conditions. One soil sample was collected and the temperature sensitivity of the methanogenic activity, the structure of methanogen community and the methanogenic pathways were determined. We found that the response of methanogenesis to temperature could be separated into two phases, a high sensitivity in the low temperature range and a modest sensitivity under mesophilic conditions, respectively. The aceticlastic methanogens Methanosarcinaceae were the main methanogens at low temperatures, while hydrogenotrophic Methanobacteriales, Methanomicrobiales, and Methanocellales were more abundant at higher temperatures. The total abundance of mcrA genes increased with temperature indicating that the growth of methanogens was stimulated. The growth of hydrogenotrophic methanogens, however, was faster than aceticlastic ones resulting in the shift of methanogen community. Determination of carbon isotopic signatures indicated that methanogenic pathway was also shifted from mainly aceticlastic methanogenesis to a mixture of hydrogenotrophic and aceticlastic methanogenesis with the increase of temperature. Collectively, the shift of temperature responses of methanogenesis was in accordance with the changes in methanogen composition and methanogenic pathway in this wetland sample. It appears that the aceticlastic methanogenesis dominating at low temperatures is more sensitive than the hydrogenotrophic one at higher temperatures.


Title #165: Characterization of Vibrio parahaemolyticus clinical strains from Maryland (2012-2013) and comparisons to a locally and globally diverse V. parahaemolyticus strains by whole-genome sequence analysis.
PMID: 25745421
Authors: Julie J. Haendiges, Ruth R. Timme, Marc W MW. Allard, Robert A RA. Myers, Eric W EW. Brown, Narjol N. Gonzalez-Escalona
Abstract: Vibrio parahaemolyticus is the leading cause of foodborne illnesses in the US associated with the consumption of raw shellfish. Previous population studies of V. parahaemolyticus have used Multi-Locus Sequence Typing (MLST) or Pulsed Field Gel Electrophoresis (PFGE). Whole genome sequencing (WGS) provides a much higher level of resolution, but has been used to characterize only a few United States (US) clinical isolates. Here we report the WGS characterization of 34 genomes of V. parahaemolyticus strains that were isolated from clinical cases in the state of Maryland (MD) during 2 years (2012-2013). These 2 years saw an increase of V. parahaemolyticus cases compared to previous years. Among these MD isolates, 28% were negative for tdh and trh, 8% were tdh positive only, 11% were trh positive only, and 53% contained both genes. We compared this set of V. parahaemolyticus genomes to those of a collection of 17 archival strains from the US (10 previously sequenced strains and 7 from NCBI, collected between 1988 and 2004) and 15 international strains, isolated from geographically-diverse environmental and clinical sources (collected between 1980 and 2010). A WGS phylogenetic analysis of these strains revealed the regional outbreak strains from MD are highly diverse and yet genetically distinct from the international strains. Some MD strains caused outbreaks 2 years in a row, indicating a local source of contamination (e.g., ST631). Advances in WGS will enable this type of analysis to become routine, providing an excellent tool for improved surveillance. Databases built with phylogenetic data will help pinpoint sources of contamination in future outbreaks and contribute to faster outbreak control.


Title #166: xCT, not just an amino-acid transporter: a multi-functional regulator of microbial infection and associated diseases.
PMID: 25745420
Authors: Lu L. Dai, Mairi C MC. Noverr, Chris C. Parsons, Johnan A R JA. Kaleeba, Zhiqiang Z. Qin
Abstract: Expression of xCT, a component of the xc (-) amino-acid transporter, is essential for the uptake of cystine required for intracellular glutathione (GSH) synthesis and maintenance of the intracellular redox balance. Therefore, xCT plays an important role not only in the survival of somatic and immune cells, but also in other aspects of tumorigenesis, including the growth and malignant progression of cancer cells, resistance to anticancer drugs, and protection of normal cells against oxidative damage induced by carcinogens. xCT also functions as a factor required for infection by Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), the causative agent of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) and other lymphoproliferative diseases associated with HIV/AIDS. In spite of these advances, our understanding of the role of xCT in the pathogenesis of infectious diseases is still limited. Therefore, this review will summarize recent findings about the functions of xCT in diseases associated with microbial (bacterial or viral) infections, in particular KSHV-associated malignancies. We will also discuss the remaining questions, future directions, as well as evidence that supports the potential benefits of exploring system xc (-) as a target for prevention and clinical management of microbial diseases and cancer.


Title #167: Recent advances in the genome-wide study of DNA replication origins in yeast.
PMID: 25745419
Authors: Chong C. Peng, Hao H. Luo, Xi X. Zhang, Feng F. Gao
Abstract: DNA replication, one of the central events in the cell cycle, is the basis of biological inheritance. In order to be duplicated, a DNA double helix must be opened at defined sites, which are called DNA replication origins (ORIs). Unlike in bacteria, where replication initiates from a single replication origin, multiple origins are utilized in the eukaryotic genomes. Among them, the ORIs in budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe have been best characterized. In recent years, advances in DNA microarray and next-generation sequencing technologies have increased the number of yeast species involved in ORIs research dramatically. The ORIs in some non-conventional yeast species such as Kluyveromyces lactis and Pichia pastoris have also been genome-widely identified. Relevant databases of replication origins in yeast were constructed, then the comparative genomic analysis can be carried out. Here, we review several experimental approaches that have been used to map replication origins in yeast and some of the available web resources related to yeast ORIs. We also discuss the sequence characteristics and chromosome structures of ORIs in the four yeast species, which can be utilized to improve yeast replication origins prediction.


Title #168: Sequencing and characterizing the genome of Estrella lausannensis as an undergraduate project: training students and biological insights.
PMID: 25745418
Authors: Claire C. Bertelli, Sébastien S. Aeby, Bérénice B. Chassot, James J. Clulow, Olivier O. Hilfiker, Samuel S. Rappo, Sébastien S. Ritzmann, Paolo P. Schumacher, Céline C. Terrettaz, Paola P. Benaglio, Laurent L. Falquet, Laurent L. Farinelli, Walid H WH. Gharib, Alexander A. Goesmann, Keith K. Harshman, Burkhard B. Linke, Ryo R. Miyazaki, Carlo C. Rivolta, Marc M. Robinson-Rechavi, Jan Roelof JR. van der Meer, Gilbert G. Greub
Abstract: With the widespread availability of high-throughput sequencing technologies, sequencing projects have become pervasive in the molecular life sciences. The huge bulk of data generated daily must be analyzed further by biologists with skills in bioinformatics and by "embedded bioinformaticians," i.e., bioinformaticians integrated in wet lab research groups. Thus, students interested in molecular life sciences must be trained in the main steps of genomics: sequencing, assembly, annotation and analysis. To reach that goal, a practical course has been set up for master students at the University of Lausanne: the "Sequence a genome" class. At the beginning of the academic year, a few bacterial species whose genome is unknown are provided to the students, who sequence and assemble the genome(s) and perform manual annotation. Here, we report the progress of the first class from September 2010 to June 2011 and the results obtained by seven master students who specifically assembled and annotated the genome of Estrella lausannensis, an obligate intracellular bacterium related to Chlamydia. The draft genome of Estrella is composed of 29 scaffolds encompassing 2,819,825 bp that encode for 2233 putative proteins. Estrella also possesses a 9136 bp plasmid that encodes for 14 genes, among which we found an integrase and a toxin/antitoxin module. Like all other members of the Chlamydiales order, Estrella possesses a highly conserved type III secretion system, considered as a key virulence factor. The annotation of the Estrella genome also allowed the characterization of the metabolic abilities of this strictly intracellular bacterium. Altogether, the students provided the scientific community with the Estrella genome sequence and a preliminary understanding of the biology of this recently-discovered bacterial genus, while learning to use cutting-edge technologies for sequencing and to perform bioinformatics analyses.


Title #169: Advancing the science of microbial symbiosis to support invasive species management: a case study on Phragmites in the Great Lakes.
PMID: 25745417
Authors: Kurt P KP. Kowalski, Charles C. Bacon, Wesley W. Bickford, Heather H. Braun, Keith K. Clay, Michèle M. Leduc-Lapierre, Elizabeth E. Lillard, Melissa K MK. McCormick, Eric E. Nelson, Monica M. Torres, James J. White, Douglas A DA. Wilcox
Abstract: A growing body of literature supports microbial symbiosis as a foundational principle for the competitive success of invasive plant species. Further exploration of the relationships between invasive species and their associated microbiomes, as well as the interactions with the microbiomes of native species, can lead to key new insights into invasive success and potentially new and effective control approaches. In this manuscript, we review microbial relationships with plants, outline steps necessary to develop invasive species control strategies that are based on those relationships, and use the invasive plant species Phragmites australis (common reed) as an example of how development of microbial-based control strategies can be enhanced using a collective impact approach. The proposed science agenda, developed by the Collaborative for Microbial Symbiosis and Phragmites Management, contains a foundation of sequential steps and mutually-reinforcing tasks to guide the development of microbial-based control strategies for Phragmites and other invasive species. Just as the science of plant-microbial symbiosis can be transferred for use in other invasive species, so too can the model of collective impact be applied to other avenues of research and management.


Title #170: Out of the dark: transitional subsurface-to-surface microbial diversity in a terrestrial serpentinizing seep (Manleluag, Pangasinan, the Philippines).
PMID: 25745416
Authors: Kristin M KM. Woycheese, D'Arcy R DR. Meyer-Dombard, Dawn D. Cardace, Anacleto M AM. Argayosa, Carlo A CA. Arcilla
Abstract: In the Zambales ophiolite range, terrestrial serpentinizing fluid seeps host diverse microbial assemblages. The fluids fall within the profile of Ca(2+)-OH(-)-type waters, indicative of active serpentinization, and are low in dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) (<0.5 ppm). Influx of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) affects the solubility of calcium carbonate as distance from the source increases, triggering the formation of meter-scale travertine terraces. Samples were collected at the source and along the outflow channel to determine subsurface microbial community response to surface exposure. DNA was extracted and submitted for high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing on the Illumina MiSeq platform. Taxonomic assignment of the sequence data indicates that 8.1% of the total sequence reads at the source of the seep affiliate with the genus Methanobacterium. Other major classes detected at the source include anaerobic taxa such as Bacteroidetes (40.7% of total sequence reads) and Firmicutes (19.1% of total reads). Hydrogenophaga spp. increase in relative abundance as redox potential increases. At the carbonate terrace, 45% of sequence reads affiliate with Meiothermus spp. Taxonomic observations and geochemical data suggest that several putative metabolisms may be favorable, including hydrogen oxidation, H2-associated sulfur cycling, methanogenesis, methanotrophy, nitrogen fixation, ammonia oxidation, denitrification, nitrate respiration, methylotrophy, carbon monoxide respiration, and ferrous iron oxidation, based on capabilities of nearest known neighbors. Scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy suggest that microbial activity produces chemical and physical traces in the precipitated carbonates forming downstream of the seep's source. These data provide context for future serpentinizing seep ecosystem studies, particularly with regards to tropical biomes.


Title #171: Oxygen deprivation and the cellular response to hypoxia in adipocytes - perspectives on white and brown adipose tissues in obesity.
PMID: 25745415
Authors: Paul P. Trayhurn, Suliman Yousef SY. Alomar
Abstract: Relative hypoxia has been shown to develop in white adipose tissue depots of different types of obese mouse (genetic, dietary), and this leads to substantial changes in white adipocyte function. These changes include increased production of inflammation-related adipokines (such as IL-6, leptin, Angptl4, and VEGF), an increase in glucose utilization and lactate production, and the induction of fibrosis and insulin resistance. Whether hypoxia also occurs in brown adipose tissue depots in obesity has been little considered. However, a recent study has reported low pO2 in brown fat of obese mice, this involving mitochondrial loss and dysfunction. We suggest that obesity-linked hypoxia may lead to similar alterations in brown adipocytes as in white fat cells - particularly changes in adipokine production, increased glucose uptake and lactate release, and insulin resistance. This would be expected to compromise thermogenic activity and the role of brown fat in glucose homeostasis and triglyceride clearance, underpinning the development of the metabolic syndrome. Hypoxia-induced augmentation of lactate production may also stimulate the "browning" of white fat depots through recruitment of UCP1 and the development of brite adipocytes.


Title #172: The importance of structural anisotropy in computational models of traumatic brain injury.
PMID: 25745414
Authors: Rika W RW. Carlsen, Nitin P NP. Daphalapurkar
Abstract: Understanding the mechanisms of injury might prove useful in assisting the development of methods for the management and mitigation of traumatic brain injury (TBI). Computational head models can provide valuable insight into the multi-length-scale complexity associated with the primary nature of diffuse axonal injury. It involves understanding how the trauma to the head (at the centimeter length scale) translates to the white-matter tissue (at the millimeter length scale), and even further down to the axonal-length scale, where physical injury to axons (e.g., axon separation) may occur. However, to accurately represent the development of TBI, the biofidelity of these computational models is of utmost importance. There has been a focused effort to improve the biofidelity of computational models by including more sophisticated material definitions and implementing physiologically relevant measures of injury. This paper summarizes recent computational studies that have incorporated structural anisotropy in both the material definition of the white matter and the injury criterion as a means to improve the predictive capabilities of computational models for TBI. We discuss the role of structural anisotropy on both the mechanical response of the brain tissue and on the development of injury. We also outline future directions in the computational modeling of TBI.


Title #173: How experimental trial context affects perceptual categorization.
PMID: 25745412
Authors: Thomas J TJ. Palmeri, Michael L ML. Mack
Abstract: To understand object categorization, participants are tested in experiments often quite different from how people experience object categories in the real world. Learning and knowledge of categories is measured in discrete experimental trials, those trials may or may not provide feedback, trials appear one after another, after some fixed inter-trial interval, with hundreds of trials in a row, within experimental blocks with some structure dictated by the experimental design. In the real world, outside of certain educational and vocational contexts, opportunities to learn and use categories are intermixed over time with a whole multitude of intervening experiences. It is clear from any elementary understanding of human cognition that sequential effects matter, yet this understanding is often ignored, and categorization trials are often instead treated as independent events, immune to local trial context. In this perspective, we use some of our work to illustrate some of the consequences of the fact that categorization experiments have a particular trial structure. Experimental trial context can affect performance in category learning and categorization experiments in ways that can profoundly affect theoretical conclusions.


Title #174: Hearing loss impacts neural alpha oscillations under adverse listening conditions.
PMID: 25745410
Authors: Eline B EB. Petersen, Malte M. Wöstmann, Jonas J. Obleser, Stefan S. Stenfelt, Thomas T. Lunner
Abstract: Degradations in external, acoustic stimulation have long been suspected to increase the load on working memory (WM). One neural signature of WM load is enhanced power of alpha oscillations (6-12 Hz). However, it is unknown to what extent common internal, auditory degradation, that is, hearing impairment, affects the neural mechanisms of WM when audibility has been ensured via amplification. Using an adapted auditory Sternberg paradigm, we varied the orthogonal factors memory load and background noise level, while the electroencephalogram was recorded. In each trial, participants were presented with 2, 4, or 6 spoken digits embedded in one of three different levels of background noise. After a stimulus-free delay interval, participants indicated whether a probe digit had appeared in the sequence of digits. Participants were healthy older adults (62-86 years), with normal to moderately impaired hearing. Importantly, the background noise levels were individually adjusted and participants were wearing hearing aids to equalize audibility across participants. Irrespective of hearing loss (HL), behavioral performance improved with lower memory load and also with lower levels of background noise. Interestingly, the alpha power in the stimulus-free delay interval was dependent on the interplay between task demands (memory load and noise level) and HL; while alpha power increased with HL during low and intermediate levels of memory load and background noise, it dropped for participants with the relatively most severe HL under the highest memory load and background noise level. These findings suggest that adaptive neural mechanisms for coping with adverse listening conditions break down for higher degrees of HL, even when adequate hearing aid amplification is in place.


Title #175: Effects of working memory load on uncertain decision-making: evidence from the Iowa Gambling Task.
PMID: 25745409
Authors: Ji-Fang JF. Cui, Ya Y. Wang, Hai-Song HS. Shi, Lu-Lu LL. Liu, Xing-Jie XJ. Chen, Ying-He YH. Chen
Abstract: The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) simulates uncertain gains and losses in real life situations and thus is a good measure of uncertain decision-making. The role of working memory (WM) in IGT performance still remains unclear. The present study aimed to examine the effect of WM on IGT performance. Three groups of participants matched on gender ratio were randomly assigned to no WM load, low WM load, and high WM load conditions. Initially the three groups did not show significant difference in WM capacity. They finished a modified version of IGT and then their implicit learning effect and explicit cognition on IGT were assessed. Results indicated a linear increasing trend of IGT performance among high WM load, low WM load and no WM load groups; participants in the no WM load and low WM load groups revealed implicit learning effect, while participants in the high WM load group did not; all participants showed explicit cognition on IGT to the same level. These results suggested that participants in the high WM load group showed good explicit cognition to IGT but showed poor performance. This pattern is similar to frontal patients. Further studies should be conducted to explore this issue.


Title #176: Learning simple and complex artificial grammars in the presence of a semantic reference field: effects on performance and awareness.
PMID: 25745408
Authors: Esther E. Van den Bos, Fenna H FH. Poletiek
Abstract: This study investigated whether the negative effect of complexity on artificial grammar learning could be compensated by adding semantics. Participants were exposed to exemplars from a simple or a complex finite state grammar presented with or without a semantic reference field. As expected, performance on a grammaticality judgment test was higher for the simple grammar than for the complex grammar. For the simple grammar, the results also showed that participants presented with a reference field and instructed to decode the meaning of each exemplar (decoding condition) did better than participants who memorized the exemplars without semantic referents (memorize condition). Contrary to expectations, however, there was no significant difference between the decoding condition and the memorize condition for the complex grammar. These findings indicated that the negative effect of complexity remained, despite the addition of semantics. To clarify how the presence of a reference field influenced the learning process, its effects on the acquisition of two types of knowledge (first- and second-order dependencies) and on participants' awareness of their knowledge were examined. The results tentatively suggested that the reference field enhanced the learning of second-order dependencies. In addition, participants in the decoding condition realized when they had knowledge relevant to making a grammaticality judgment, whereas participants in the memorize condition demonstrated some knowledge of which they were unaware. These results are in line with the view that the reference field enhanced structure learning by making certain dependencies more salient. Moreover, our findings stress the influence of complexity on artificial grammar learning.


Title #177: Degree of handedness and priming: further evidence for a distinction between production and identification priming mechanisms.
PMID: 25745406
Authors: Donna J DJ. LaVoie, Brianna B. Olbinski, Shayna S. Palmer
Abstract: The distinction between implicit and explicit forms of memory retrieval is long-standing, and important to the extent it reveals how different neural architecture supports different aspects of memory function. Similarly, distinctions have been made between kinds of repetition priming, a form of implicit memory retrieval. This study focuses on the production-identification (ID) priming distinction, which delineates priming tasks involving verification of stimulus features as compared to priming tasks that require use of a cue to guide response retrieval. Studies investigating this dissociation in dementia or similar patient populations indicate that these forms of priming may differ in their neural bases. The current study looks at degree of handedness as a way of investigating inferred neural architecture supporting these two forms of priming. A growing body of research indicates that degree of handedness (consistent, or CH, versus inconsistent, or ICH) is associated with greater interhemispheric interaction and functional access to right hemisphere processing in ICH, with superior performance seen in ICH on memory tasks reliant on this processing. Arguments about the theoretical mechanisms underlying ID and production forms of perceptual priming tasks suggest that performance on these tasks will differ as a function of degree of handedness. We tested this question in a group of CH and ICH young adults, who were asked to study lists of words prior to performing a production priming task (word stem completion, WSC), a perceptual word ID task, and a word stem cued recall task. While both handedness groups exhibited reliable priming across tasks, WSC priming was greater in ICH than CH participants, with ID priming not differing between groups. This dissociation supports the argument that production and ID forms of priming have different underlying neural bases.


Title #178: The emergence of scalar meanings.
PMID: 25745405
Authors: Urtzi U. Etxeberria, Aritz A. Irurtzun
Abstract: This paper analyzes the emergence of scalar additive meanings. We show that in Basque the same particle ere can obtain both the "simple additive" reading (akin to English too) and the "scalar additive" reading (akin to English even) but we argue that we do not have to distinguish two types of ere. We provide evidence, by means of a production and a perception experiment, that the reading is disambiguated by means of prosody (the placement of nuclear stress), which is a correlate of focus. We argue that the scalarity effect is generated by the combination of two presuppositions (a focus-induced one and a lexical one) and the assertion of the sentence.


Title #179: Feature saliency and feedback information interactively impact visual category learning.
PMID: 25745404
Authors: Rubi R. Hammer, Vladimir V. Sloutsky, Kalanit K. Grill-Spector
Abstract: Visual category learning (VCL) involves detecting which features are most relevant for categorization. VCL relies on attentional learning, which enables effectively redirecting attention to object's features most relevant for categorization, while 'filtering out' irrelevant features. When features relevant for categorization are not salient, VCL relies also on perceptual learning, which enables becoming more sensitive to subtle yet important differences between objects. Little is known about how attentional learning and perceptual learning interact when VCL relies on both processes at the same time. Here we tested this interaction. Participants performed VCL tasks in which they learned to categorize novel stimuli by detecting the feature dimension relevant for categorization. Tasks varied both in feature saliency (low-saliency tasks that required perceptual learning vs. high-saliency tasks), and in feedback information (tasks with mid-information, moderately ambiguous feedback that increased attentional load, vs. tasks with high-information non-ambiguous feedback). We found that mid-information and high-information feedback were similarly effective for VCL in high-saliency tasks. This suggests that an increased attentional load, associated with the processing of moderately ambiguous feedback, has little effect on VCL when features are salient. In low-saliency tasks, VCL relied on slower perceptual learning; but when the feedback was highly informative participants were able to ultimately attain the same performance as during the high-saliency VCL tasks. However, VCL was significantly compromised in the low-saliency mid-information feedback task. We suggest that such low-saliency mid-information learning scenarios are characterized by a 'cognitive loop paradox' where two interdependent learning processes have to take place simultaneously.


Title #180: Acute alcohol consumption and secondary psychopathic traits increase ratings of the attractiveness and health of ethnic ingroup faces but not outgroup faces.
PMID: 25745403
Authors: Ian J IJ. Mitchell, Steven M SM. Gillespie, Monica M. Leverton, Victoria V. Llewellyn, Emily E. Neale, Isobel I. Stevenson
Abstract: Studies have consistently shown that both consumption of acute amounts of alcohol and elevated antisocial psychopathic traits are associated with an impaired ability for prepotent response inhibition. This may manifest as a reduced ability to inhibit prepotent race biased responses. Here, we tested the effects of acute alcohol consumption, and elevated antisocial psychopathic traits, on judgments of the attractiveness and health of ethnic ingroup and outgroup faces. In the first study, we show that following acute alcohol consumption, at a dose that is sufficient to result in impaired performance on tests of executive function, Caucasian participants judged White faces to be more attractive and healthier compared to when sober. However, this effect did not extend to Black faces. A similar effect was found in a second study involving sober Caucasian participants where secondary psychopathic traits were related to an intergroup bias in the ratings of attractiveness for White versus Black faces. These results are discussed in terms of a model which postulates that poor prefrontal functioning leads to increases in ingroup liking as a result of impaired abilities for prepotent response inhibition.


Title #181: SR calcium handling dysfunction, stress-response signaling pathways, and atrial fibrillation.
PMID: 25745402
Authors: Xun X. Ai
Abstract: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia. It is associated with a markedly increased risk of premature death due to embolic stroke and also complicates co-existing cardiovascular diseases such as heart failure. The prevalence of AF increases dramatically with age, and aging has been shown to be an independent risk of AF. Due to an aging population in the world, a growing body of AF patients are suffering a diminished quality of life and causing an associated economic burden. However, effective pharmacologic treatments and prevention strategies are lacking due to a poor understanding of the molecular and electrophysiologic mechanisms of AF in the failing and/or aged heart. Recent studies suggest that altered atrial calcium handling contributes to the onset and maintenance of AF. Here we review the role of stress-response kinases and calcium handling dysfunction in AF genesis in the aged and failing heart.


