Title #1: Bothrops jararaca envenomation: Pathogenesis of hemostatic disturbances and intravascular hemolysis.
PMID: 26080462
Authors: Luana V LV. Senise, Karine M KM. Yamashita, Marcelo L ML. Santoro
Abstract: To attain fully functional biological activity, vitamin-K dependent coagulation factors (VKDCF) are γ-carboxylated prior to secretion from liver. Warfarin impairs the γ-carboxylation, and consequently their physiological function. Bothrops jararaca snake venom (BjV) contains several activators of blood coagulation, especially procoagulant enzymes (prothrombin and factor X activators) and thrombin-like enzymes. In order to clarify the relative contribution of prothrombin and factor X activators to the hemostatic disturbances occurring during experimental B. jararaca envenomation, warfarin was used to deplete VKDCF, prior to BjV administration. Male Wistar rats were pretreated with saline (Sal) or warfarin (War) and inoculated subsequently with BjV or saline, thus forming four groups: Sal + Sal (negative control), Sal + BjV (positive control), War + Sal (warfarinization control), and War + BjV. Three hours after inoculation, prothrombin and factor X levels fell 40% and 50%, respectively; levels of both factors decreased more than 97% in the War + Sal and War + BjV groups. Platelet counts dropped 93% and 76% in Sal + BjV and War + BjV, respectively, and plasma fibrinogen levels decreased 86% exclusively in Sal + BjV. After 6 and 24 h, platelet counts and fibrinogen levels increased progressively. A dramatic augmentation in plasma hemoglobin levels and the presence of schizocytes and microcytes in the Sal + BjV group indicated the development of intravascular hemolysis, which was prevented by warfarin pretreatment. Our findings show that intravascular thrombin generation has the foremost role in the pathogenesis of coagulopathy and intravascular hemolysis, but not in the development of thrombocytopenia, in B. jararaca envenomation in rats; in addition, fibrinogenases (metalloproteinases) may contribute to coagulopathy more than thrombin-like enzymes.


Title #2: Human miR-3145 inhibits influenza A viruses replication by targeting and silencing viral PB1 gene.
PMID: 26080461
Authors: Kritsada K. Khongnomnan, Jarika J. Makkoch, Witthaya W. Poomipak, Yong Y. Poovorawan, Sunchai S. Payungporn
Abstract: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in the regulation of gene expression and are involved in many cellular processes including inhibition of viral replication in infected cells. In this study, three subtypes of influenza A viruses (pH1N1, H5N1 and H3N2) were analyzed to identify candidate human miRNAs targeting and silencing viral genes expression. Candidate human miRNAs were predicted by miRBase and RNAhybrid based on minimum free energy (MFE) and hybridization patterns between human miRNAs and viral target genes. In silico analysis presented 76 miRNAs targeting influenza A viruses, including 70 miRNAs that targeted specific subtypes (21 for pH1N1, 27 for H5N1 and 22 for H3N2) and 6 miRNAs (miR-216b, miR-3145, miR-3682, miR-4513, miR-4753 and miR-5693) that targeted multiple subtypes of influenza A viruses. Interestingly, miR-3145 is the only candidate miRNA targeting all three subtypes of influenza A viruses. The miR-3145 targets to PB1 encoding polymerase basic protein 1, which is the main component of the viral polymerase complex. The silencing effect of miR-3145 was validated by 3'-UTR reporter assay and inhibition of influenza viral replication in A549 cells. In 3'-UTR reporter assay, results revealed that miR-3145 triggered significant reduction of the luciferase activity. Moreover, expression of viral PB1 genes was also inhibited considerably (P value < 0.05) in viral infected cells expressing mimic miR-3145. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that human miR-3145 triggered silencing of viral PB1 genes and lead to inhibition of multiple subtypes of influenza viral replication. Therefore, hsa-miR-3145 might be useful for alternative treatment of influenza A viruses in the future.


Title #3: Antitumor efficacy and intratumoral distribution of SN-38 from polymeric depots in brain tumor model.
PMID: 26080460
Authors: Ketpat K. Vejjasilpa, Norased N. Nasongkla, Chawan C. Manaspon, Noppadol N. Larbcharoensub, Atthaporn A. Boongird, Suradej S. Hongeng, Nipan N. Israsena
Abstract: We investigate antitumor efficacy and 2D and 3D intratumoral distribution of 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38) from polymeric depots inside U-87MG xenograft tumor model in nude mice. Results showed that polymeric depots could be used to administer and controlled release of a large amount of SN-38 directly to the brain tumor model. SN-38 released from depots suppressed tumor growth, where the extent of suppression greatly depended on doses and the number of depot injections. Tumor suppression of SN-38 from depots was three-fold higher in animals which received double injections of depots at high dose (9.7 mg of SN-38) compared to single injection (2.2 mg). H&E staining of tumor sections showed that the area of tumor cell death/survival of the former group was two-fold higher than those of the latter group. Fluorescence imaging based on self-fluorescent property of SN-38 was used to evaluate the intratumoral distribution of this drug compared to histological results. The linear correlation between fluorescence intensity and the amount of SN-38 allowed quantitative determination of SN-38 in tumor tissues. Results clearly showed direct correlation between the amount of SN-38 in tumor sections and cancer cell death. Moreover, 3D reconstruction representing the distribution of SN-38 in tumors was obtained. Results from this study suggest the rationale for intratumoral drug administration and release of drugs inside tumor, which is necessary to design drug delivery systems with efficient antitumor activity.


Title #4: In vitro and in vivo study on the effect of antifungal agents on hematopoietic cells in mice.
PMID: 26080459
Authors: Maria M. Samalidou, Dimitris D. Bougiouklis, Timoleon-Achilleas TA. Vyzantiadis, Joseph J. Meletiadis, Nikolaos N. Monokrousos, Eleni E. Siotou, Afroditi A. Sivropoulou, Achilles A. Anagnostopoulos, Damianos D. Sotiropoulos
Abstract: Liposomal amphotericin B, voriconazole, and caspofungin are currently used for systemic and severe fungal infections. Patients with malignant diseases are treated with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) for the recovery of granulocytes after chemotherapy or hematopoietic cell (HC) transplantation. Since they have a high incidence of fungal infections, they inevitably receive antifungal drugs for treatment and prophylaxis. Despite their proven less toxicity for various cell types comparatively with amphotericin B and the decrease in the number of leukocytes that has been reported as a possible complication in clinical studies, the effect of liposomal amphotericin B, voriconazole, and caspofungin on HCs has not been clarified. The present study aimed to examine the in vitro and in vivo effect of these three modern antifungals on HCs. Colony-forming unit (CFU) assays of murine bone marrow cells were performed in methylcellulose medium with or without cytokines and in the presence or absence of various concentrations of liposomal amphotericin B, voriconazole, and caspofungin. In the in vivo experiments, the absolute number of granulocytes was determined during leukocyte recovery in sublethally irradiated mice receiving each antifungal agent separately, with or without G-CSF. In vitro, all three antifungal drugs were nontoxic and, interestingly, they significantly increased the number of CFU-granulocyte-macrophage colonies in the presence of cytokines, at all concentrations tested. This was contrary to the concentration-dependent toxicity and the significant decrease caused by conventional amphotericin B. In vivo, the number of granulocytes was significantly higher with caspofungin plus G-CSF treatment, higher and to a lesser extent higher, but not statistically significantly, with voriconazole plus G-CSF and liposomal amphotericin B plus G-CSF treatments, respectively, as compared with G-CSF alone. These data indicate a potential synergistic effect of these antifungals with the cytokines, in vitro and in vivo, with subsequent positive effect on hematopoiesis.


Title #5: Efficacy of Topical Application of Emu Oil on Areola Skin Barrier in Breastfeeding Women.
PMID: 26080458
Authors: Vincenzo V. Zanardo, David D. Giarrizzo, Luigi L. Maiolo, Gianluca G. Straface
Abstract: Appropriate hydration and skin surface pH are of fundamental importance in preventing areola skin barrier damage and breastfeeding success. We studied the dermal effects of emu oil on areola skin soon after birth in 70 at-term breastfeeding mothers by noninvasive bioengineering method. Emu oil-based cream was found to be effective in improving stratum corneum hydration of breast areolae (mean ± standard deviation, from 56.9 ± 18.2 to 65.0 ± 17.2 conventional units, P < .003) and did not affect skin pH, temperature, or elasticity. The significant improvement in hydration values was more pronounced in the puerperae presenting with basal hydration in the lower quartiles (mean ± standard deviation, from 41.6 ± 17.2 to 59.6 ± 21.2 conventional units, P < .001). Further studies are warranted to confirm the long-term beneficial effects of this preparation in a very sensitive patient population.


Title #6: Hematologic Disorders: Sickle Cell Disease.
PMID: 26080456
Authors: David D. Baltierra, Tiffany T. Harper, Matthew Page MP. Jones, Konrad C KC. Nau
Abstract: Sickle cell disease, the most common inherited hemoglobinopathy in the United States, is a group of autosomal recessive red cell disorders resulting from hemoglobin S. Hemoglobin S forms rigid polymers when deoxygenated that give red blood cells their sickle crescent shape. Increased viscosity and cell adhesion result in vasoocclusion. Universal screening of US newborns enables early detection. Prophylactic penicillin through age 5 years and pneumococcal immunization lower the risk of serious pneumococcal infections. Vasoocclusive crises are a major complication and cause severe pain; there is no objective confirmatory test. Intravenous hydration and rapid pain treatment with parenteral opioids are indicated for severe pain. Acute chest syndrome presents as a new pulmonary infiltrate with acute onset of symptoms of lower respiratory disease with or without fever. Stroke, acute ocular conditions, leg ulcers, priapism, and anemia are common complications of sickle cell disease. Hydroxyurea decreases sickling, improves red cell survival, and reduces the frequency of vasoocclusive crises. Hydroxyurea should be considered if three or more vasoocclusive crises occur per year. Multiple therapeutic transfusions are required, and the risks of iron overload and blood antibody development are high. Increased maternal-fetal risk occurs in pregnancy with sickle cell disease.


Title #7: Hematologic Disorders: Bone Marrow Failure.
PMID: 26080455
Authors: David D. Baltierra, Tiffany T. Harper, Matthew Page MP. Jones, Konrad C KC. Nau
Abstract: Pancytopenia with hypocellular bone marrow most often is caused by idiopathic aplastic anemia, but can be caused by inherited bone marrow failure syndromes, drugs, infections, nutritional deficiencies, and rheumatologic disease. Aplastic anemia (AA) can remain stable for years but can become severe or transform into a myelodysplastic syndrome, acute leukemia, or paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. Corticosteroids and erythropoietin are ineffective for management of aplastic anemia; and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor is only indicated in severe infections that do not improve with antibiotics. Supportive care with leukocyte-poor red blood cell transfusions reduces HLA antigen alloimmunization and platelet transfusion refractoriness. Horse or rabbit antithymocyte globulin plus cyclosporine typically is first-line therapy for patients with nonsevere AA who are transfusion-dependent, patients older than 40 years with severe AA, and patients with severe AA who lack an HLA antigen-matched sibling for bone marrow transplantation. The overall 5-year survival rate among patients taking antithymocyte globulin plus cyclosporine therapy is 75% to 85%. Bone marrow transplantation from an HLA antigen-matched sibling is considered the treatment of choice for severe AA in children and adults younger than 40 years. Less than approximately 33% of patients with AA have an HLA antigen-matched sibling donor, so matched unrelated donor hematopoietic stem cells are increasingly used. Umbilical cord stem cell transplantation is in clinical trials.


Title #8: Hematologic Disorders: Blood Transfusion Products.
PMID: 26080454
Authors: David D. Baltierra, Tiffany T. Harper, Matthew Page MP. Jones, Konrad C KC. Nau
Abstract: Until the 1980s, liberal blood transfusion criteria with limited evidence were used regardless of the patient's clinical condition. However, blood transfusion products are associated with several risks, such as infection, acute lung injury, circulatory overload, and hemolytic transfusion reactions. More restrictive transfusion criteria and patient monitoring can decrease the need for transfusions, as well as decrease morbidity and mortality rates and costs. The national supply of blood products continues to decline with more stringent blood donor criteria. Preoperative autologous blood donation has fallen out of favor in patients without antibodies to high-incidence antigens because of increased rates of transfusion, waste of predonated units, and significant costs. Instead, preoperative erythropoietin plus iron therapy in patients who are at high risk of postoperative anemia as well as intraoperative techniques, such as use of antifibrinolytics and cell salvage, can prevent the need for allogeneic blood transfusion. Artificial blood products remain problematic and are not used in the United States.


Title #9: Hematologic Disorders: Anemia.
PMID: 26080453
Authors: David D. Baltierra, Tiffany T. Harper, Matthew Page MP. Jones, Konrad C KC. Nau
Abstract: Anemia occurs in up to 25% of the US population. Normal hemoglobin levels vary by race, sex, and age. Classification of anemia by mean corpuscular volume guides the differential diagnosis and evaluation. Iron studies, reticulocyte count, the red blood cell distribution width index, and blood test results are used to make the diagnosis. Iron deficiency anemia is the most common microcytic anemia and is managed with iron therapy. Parenteral iron is available when the oral route cannot be used. Patients who do not benefit from therapy should be evaluated for adherence, malabsorption, occult bleeding, systemic disease, or less common inherited disorders. A source of gastrointestinal bleeding is found in 60% to 70% of patients with iron deficiency anemia who are referred for endoscopy. Normocytic anemia has a broad differential, including nutritional deficiencies, blood loss, renal disease, malignancy (solid tumors or hematologic cancer), rheumatologic disorders, endocrine disorders, and other systemic diseases. Macrocytic anemias are seen with vitamin B12 and folate deficiency, alcohol use, thyroid disease, hydroxyurea, antiretroviral drugs, myelodysplastic syndromes, and myeloma. Oral vitamin B12 is underused, and can be as effective as intramuscular vitamin B12 in managing anemia due to vitamin B12 deficiency.


Title #10: Endobronchial intubation in thoracic surgery: Which side should be preferred?
PMID: 26080451
Authors: Tevfik T. Kaplan, Perihan P. Ekmekçi, Baturay Kansu BK. Kazbek, Nalan N. Ogan, Aslıhan A. Alhan, Bulent B. Koçer, Serdar S. Han, Filiz F. Tüzüner
Abstract: This study was undertaken to compare the clinical performance of right versus left double-lumen endotracheal tubes placed without using fiberoptic bronchoscopy in thoracic surgery operations.


Title #11: Discriminating between stabilizing and destabilizing protein design mutations via recombination and simulation.
PMID: 26080450
Authors: Lucas B LB. Johnson, Lucas P LP. Gintner, Sehoo S. Park, Christopher D CD. Snow
Abstract: Accuracy of current computational protein design (CPD) methods is limited by inherent approximations in energy potentials and sampling. These limitations are often used to qualitatively explain design failures; however, relatively few studies provide specific examples or quantitative details that can be used to improve future CPD methods. Expanding the design method to include a library of sequences provides data that is well suited for discriminating between stabilizing and destabilizing design elements. Using thermophilic endoglucanase E1 from Acidothermus cellulolyticus as a model enzyme, we computationally designed a sequence with 60 mutations. The design sequence was rationally divided into structural blocks and recombined with the wild-type sequence. Resulting chimeras were assessed for activity and thermostability. Surprisingly, unlike previous chimera libraries, regression analysis based on one- and two-body effects was not sufficient for predicting chimera stability. Analysis of molecular dynamics simulations proved helpful in distinguishing stabilizing and destabilizing mutations. Reverting to the wild-type amino acid at destabilized sites partially regained design stability, and introducing predicted stabilizing mutations in wild-type E1 significantly enhanced thermostability. The ability to isolate stabilizing and destabilizing elements in computational design offers an opportunity to interpret previous design failures and improve future CPD methods.


Title #12: Arginine methylation of HSP70 regulates retinoid acid-mediated RARβ2 gene activation.
PMID: 26080448
Authors: Wei-Wei WW. Gao, Rong-Quan RQ. Xiao, Bing-Ling BL. Peng, Huan-Teng HT. Xu, Hai-Feng HF. Shen, Ming-Feng MF. Huang, Tao-Tao TT. Shi, Jia J. Yi, Wen-Juan WJ. Zhang, Xiao-Nan XN. Wu, Xiang X. Gao, Xiang-Zhi XZ. Lin, Pieter C PC. Dorrestein, Michael G MG. Rosenfeld, Wen W. Liu
Abstract: Although "histone" methyltransferases and demethylases are well established to regulate transcriptional programs and to use nonhistone proteins as substrates, their possible roles in regulation of heat-shock proteins in the nucleus have not been investigated. Here, we report that a highly conserved arginine residue, R469, in HSP70 (heat-shock protein of 70 kDa) proteins, an evolutionarily conserved protein family of ATP-dependent molecular chaperone, was monomethylated (me1), at least partially, by coactivator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1/protein arginine methyltransferase 4 (CARM1/PRMT4) and demethylated by jumonji-domain-containing 6 (JMJD6), both in vitro and in cultured cells. Functional studies revealed that HSP70 could directly regulate retinoid acid (RA)-induced retinoid acid receptor β2 (RARβ2) gene transcription through its binding to chromatin, with R469me1 being essential in this process. HSP70's function in gene transcriptional regulation appears to be distinct from its protein chaperon activity. R469me1 was shown to mediate the interaction between HSP70 and TFIIH, which involves in RNA polymerase II phosphorylation and thus transcriptional initiation. Our findings expand the repertoire of nonhistone substrates targeted by PRMT4 and JMJD6, and reveal a new function of HSP70 proteins in gene transcription at the chromatin level aside from its classic role in protein folding and quality control.


Title #13: Osborne Reynolds pipe flow: Direct simulation from laminar through gradual transition to fully developed turbulence.
PMID: 26080447
Authors: Xiaohua X. Wu, Parviz P. Moin, Ronald J RJ. Adrian, Jon R JR. Baltzer
Abstract: The precise dynamics of breakdown in pipe transition is a century-old unresolved problem in fluid mechanics. We demonstrate that the abruptness and mysteriousness attributed to the Osborne Reynolds pipe transition can be partially resolved with a spatially developing direct simulation that carries weakly but finitely perturbed laminar inflow through gradual rather than abrupt transition arriving at the fully developed turbulent state. Our results with this approach show during transition the energy norms of such inlet perturbations grow exponentially rather than algebraically with axial distance. When inlet disturbance is located in the core region, helical vortex filaments evolve into large-scale reverse hairpin vortices. The interaction of these reverse hairpins among themselves or with the near-wall flow when they descend to the surface from the core produces small-scale hairpin packets, which leads to breakdown. When inlet disturbance is near the wall, certain quasi-spanwise structure is stretched into a Lambda vortex, and develops into a large-scale hairpin vortex. Small-scale hairpin packets emerge near the tip region of the large-scale hairpin vortex, and subsequently grow into a turbulent spot, which is itself a local concentration of small-scale hairpin vortices. This vortex dynamics is broadly analogous to that in the boundary layer bypass transition and in the secondary instability and breakdown stage of natural transition, suggesting the possibility of a partial unification. Under parabolic base flow the friction factor overshoots Moody's correlation. Plug base flow requires stronger inlet disturbance for transition. Accuracy of the results is demonstrated by comparing with analytical solutions before breakdown, and with fully developed turbulence measurements after the completion of transition.


Title #14: Rationally designed chemokine-based toxin targeting the viral G protein-coupled receptor US28 potently inhibits cytomegalovirus infection in vivo.
PMID: 26080445
Authors: Katja K. Spiess, Mads G MG. Jeppesen, Mikkel M. Malmgaard-Clausen, Karen K. Krzywkowski, Kalpana K. Dulal, Tong T. Cheng, Gertrud M GM. Hjortø, Olav O. Larsen, John S JS. Burg, Michael A MA. Jarvis, K Christopher KC. Garcia, Hua H. Zhu, Thomas N TN. Kledal, Mette M MM. Rosenkilde
Abstract: The use of receptor-ligand interactions to direct toxins to kill diseased cells selectively has shown considerable promise for treatment of a number of cancers and, more recently, autoimmune disease. Here we move the fusion toxin protein (FTP) technology beyond cancer/autoimmune therapeutics to target the human viral pathogen, human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), on the basis of its expression of the 7TM G protein-coupled chemokine receptor US28. The virus origin of US28 provides an exceptional chemokine-binding profile with high selectivity and improved binding for the CX3C chemokine, CX3CL1. Moreover, US28 is constitutively internalizing by nature, providing highly effective FTP delivery. We designed a synthetic CX3CL1 variant engineered to have ultra-high affinity for US28 and greater specificity for US28 than the natural sole receptor for CX3CL1, CX3CR1, and we fused the synthetic variant with the cytotoxic domain of Pseudomonas Exotoxin A. This novel strategy of a rationally designed FTP provided unparalleled anti-HCMV efficacy and potency in vitro and in vivo.


Title #15: Transcriptomics of critical period of visual cortical plasticity in mice.
PMID: 26080443
Authors: Jamie J. Benoit, Albert E AE. Ayoub, Pasko P. Rakic
Abstract: In contrast to the prenatal development of the cerebral cortex, when cell production, migration, and layer formation dominate, development after birth involves more subtle processes, such as activity-dependent plasticity that includes refinement of synaptic connectivity by its stabilization and elimination. In the present study, we use RNA-seq with high spatial resolution to examine differential gene expression across layers 2/3, 4, 5, and 6 of the mouse visual cortex before the onset of the critical period of plasticity [postnatal day 5 (P5)], at its peak (P26), and at the mature stage (P180) and compare it with the prefrontal association area. We find that, although genes involved in early developmental events such as cell division, neuronal migration, and axon guidance are still prominent at P5, their expression largely terminates by P26, when synaptic plasticity and associated signaling pathways become enriched. Unexpectedly, the gene expression profile was similar in both areas at this age, suggesting that activity-dependent plasticity between visual and association cortices are subject to the same genetic constraints. Although gene expression changes follow similar paths until P26, we have identified 30 regionally enriched genes that are prominent during the critical period. At P180, we identified several hundred differentially expressed gene isoforms despite subsiding levels of gene expression differences. This result indicates that, once genetic developmental programs cease, the remaining morphogenetic processes may depend on posttranslational events.


Title #16: Ras-GTP dimers activate the Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) pathway.
PMID: 26080442
Authors: Xiaolin X. Nan, Tanja M TM. Tamgüney, Eric A EA. Collisson, Li-Jung LJ. Lin, Cameron C. Pitt, Jacqueline J. Galeas, Sophia S. Lewis, Joe W JW. Gray, Frank F. McCormick, Steven S. Chu
Abstract: Rat sarcoma (Ras) GTPases regulate cell proliferation and survival through effector pathways including Raf-MAPK, and are the most frequently mutated genes in human cancer. Although it is well established that Ras activity requires binding to both GTP and the membrane, details of how Ras operates on the cell membrane to activate its effectors remain elusive. Efforts to target mutant Ras in human cancers to therapeutic benefit have also been largely unsuccessful. Here we show that Ras-GTP forms dimers to activate MAPK. We used quantitative photoactivated localization microscopy (PALM) to analyze the nanoscale spatial organization of PAmCherry1-tagged KRas 4B (hereafter referred to KRas) on the cell membrane under various signaling conditions. We found that at endogenous expression levels KRas forms dimers, and KRas(G12D), a mutant that constitutively binds GTP, activates MAPK. Overexpression of KRas leads to formation of higher order Ras nanoclusters. Conversely, at lower expression levels, KRas(G12D) is monomeric and activates MAPK only when artificially dimerized. Moreover, dimerization and signaling of KRas are both dependent on an intact CAAX (C, cysteine; A, aliphatic; X, any amino acid) motif that is also known to mediate membrane localization. These results reveal a new, dimerization-dependent signaling mechanism of Ras, and suggest Ras dimers as a potential therapeutic target in mutant Ras-driven tumors.


Title #17: Inflammation induces dermal Vγ4+ γδT17 memory-like cells that travel to distant skin and accelerate secondary IL-17-driven responses.
PMID: 26080440
Authors: Francisco F. Ramírez-Valle, Elizabeth E EE. Gray, Jason G JG. Cyster
Abstract: Gamma delta (γδ) T cells represent a major IL-17 committed T-cell population (γδT17 cells) in the mouse dermis. Following exposure to the inflammatory agent imiquimod (IMQ) the Vγ4(+) subset of γδT cells produce IL-17 in the skin and expand rapidly in draining lymph nodes (LNs). Local IMQ treatment in humans is known to exacerbate psoriasis skin lesion activity at distant sites. Whether expanded γδT17 cells sensitize distant sites to inflammation has been unknown. Here we show that expanded Vγ4(+) γδT17 cells egress from LNs in a fingolimod (FTY720)-sensitive manner and use C-C chemokine receptor type 2 to accumulate in inflamed skin where they augment neutrophil recruitment and inflammation. They also travel to noninflamed skin and peripheral LNs and remain in elevated numbers at these distant sites for at least 3 mo. Sensitized mice show more rapid skin inflammation and greater proliferation and IL-17 production by Vγ4(+) γδT cells upon imiquimod challenge. Transfer experiments confirm that memory-like Vγ4(+) γδT17 cells respond more rapidly. Memory-like Vγ4(+) γδT17 cells are distinguished by greater IL-1R1 expression and more proliferation in response to IL-1β. These findings establish that local skin inflammation leads to faster and stronger secondary responses to the same stimulus through long-term and systemic changes in the composition and properties of the dermal γδT-cell population.


Title #18: Muscarinic regulation of dopamine and glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens.
PMID: 26080439
Authors: Jung Hoon JH. Shin, Martín F MF. Adrover, Jürgen J. Wess, Veronica A VA. Alvarez
Abstract: Cholinergic transmission in the striatum functions as a key modulator of dopamine (DA) transmission and synaptic plasticity, both of which are required for reward and motor learning. Acetylcholine (ACh) can elicit striatal DA release through activation of nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs) on DA axonal projections. However, it remains controversial how muscarinic ACh receptors (mAChRs) modulate striatal DA release, with studies reporting both potentiation and depression of striatal DA transmission by mAChR agonists. This study investigates the mAChR-mediated regulation of release from three types of midbrain neurons that project to striatum: DA, DA/glutamate, and glutamate neurons. We found that M5 mAChRs potentiate DA and glutamate release only from DA and DA/glutamate projections from the midbrain. We also show that M2/M4 mAChRs depress the nAChR-dependent mechanism of DA release in the striatum. These results suggest that M5 receptors on DA neuron terminals enhance DA release, whereas M2/M4 autoreceptors on cholinergic terminals inhibit ACh release and subsequent nAChR-dependent DA release. Our findings clarify the mechanisms of mAChR-dependent modulation of DA and glutamate transmission in the striatum.


Title #19: Next-generation libraries for robust RNA interference-based genome-wide screens.
PMID: 26080438
Authors: Martin M. Kampmann, Max A MA. Horlbeck, Yuwen Y. Chen, Jordan C JC. Tsai, Michael C MC. Bassik, Luke A LA. Gilbert, Jacqueline E JE. Villalta, S Chul SC. Kwon, Hyeshik H. Chang, V Narry VN. Kim, Jonathan S JS. Weissman
Abstract: Genetic screening based on loss-of-function phenotypes is a powerful discovery tool in biology. Although the recent development of clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-based screening approaches in mammalian cell culture has enormous potential, RNA interference (RNAi)-based screening remains the method of choice in several biological contexts. We previously demonstrated that ultracomplex pooled short-hairpin RNA (shRNA) libraries can largely overcome the problem of RNAi off-target effects in genome-wide screens. Here, we systematically optimize several aspects of our shRNA library, including the promoter and microRNA context for shRNA expression, selection of guide strands, and features relevant for postscreen sample preparation for deep sequencing. We present next-generation high-complexity libraries targeting human and mouse protein-coding genes, which we grouped into 12 sublibraries based on biological function. A pilot screen suggests that our next-generation RNAi library performs comparably to current CRISPR interference (CRISPRi)-based approaches and can yield complementary results with high sensitivity and high specificity.


Title #20: Amorphous oxide alloys as interfacial layers with broadly tunable electronic structures for organic photovoltaic cells.
PMID: 26080437
Authors: Nanjia N. Zhou, Myung-Gil MG. Kim, Stephen S. Loser, Jeremy J. Smith, Hiroyuki H. Yoshida, Xugang X. Guo, Charles C. Song, Hosub H. Jin, Zhihua Z. Chen, Seok Min SM. Yoon, Arthur J AJ. Freeman, Robert P H RP. Chang, Antonio A. Facchetti, Tobin J TJ. Marks
Abstract: In diverse classes of organic optoelectronic devices, controlling charge injection, extraction, and blocking across organic semiconductor-inorganic electrode interfaces is crucial for enhancing quantum efficiency and output voltage. To this end, the strategy of inserting engineered interfacial layers (IFLs) between electrical contacts and organic semiconductors has significantly advanced organic light-emitting diode and organic thin film transistor performance. For organic photovoltaic (OPV) devices, an electronically flexible IFL design strategy to incrementally tune energy level matching between the inorganic electrode system and the organic photoactive components without varying the surface chemistry would permit OPV cells to adapt to ever-changing generations of photoactive materials. Here we report the implementation of chemically/environmentally robust, low-temperature solution-processed amorphous transparent semiconducting oxide alloys, In-Ga-O and Ga-Zn-Sn-O, as IFLs for inverted OPVs. Continuous variation of the IFL compositions tunes the conduction band minima over a broad range, affording optimized OPV power conversion efficiencies for multiple classes of organic active layer materials and establishing clear correlations between IFL/photoactive layer energetics and device performance.


Title #21: CRISPR-based screening of genomic island excision events in bacteria.
PMID: 26080436
Authors: Kurt K. Selle, Todd R TR. Klaenhammer, Rodolphe R. Barrangou
Abstract: Genomic analysis of Streptococcus thermophilus revealed that mobile genetic elements (MGEs) likely contributed to gene acquisition and loss during evolutionary adaptation to milk. Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats-CRISPR-associated genes (CRISPR-Cas), the adaptive immune system in bacteria, limits genetic diversity by targeting MGEs including bacteriophages, transposons, and plasmids. CRISPR-Cas systems are widespread in streptococci, suggesting that the interplay between CRISPR-Cas systems and MGEs is one of the driving forces governing genome homeostasis in this genus. To investigate the genetic outcomes resulting from CRISPR-Cas targeting of integrated MGEs, in silico prediction revealed four genomic islands without essential genes in lengths from 8 to 102 kbp, totaling 7% of the genome. In this study, the endogenous CRISPR3 type II system was programmed to target the four islands independently through plasmid-based expression of engineered CRISPR arrays. Targeting lacZ within the largest 102-kbp genomic island was lethal to wild-type cells and resulted in a reduction of up to 2.5-log in the surviving population. Genotyping of Lac(-) survivors revealed variable deletion events between the flanking insertion-sequence elements, all resulting in elimination of the Lac-encoding island. Chimeric insertion sequence footprints were observed at the deletion junctions after targeting all of the four genomic islands, suggesting a common mechanism of deletion via recombination between flanking insertion sequences. These results established that self-targeting CRISPR-Cas systems may direct significant evolution of bacterial genomes on a population level, influencing genome homeostasis and remodeling.


Title #22: PRUNE2 is a human prostate cancer suppressor regulated by the intronic long noncoding RNA PCA3.
PMID: 26080435
Authors: Ahmad A. Salameh, Alessandro K AK. Lee, Marina M. Cardó-Vila, Diana N DN. Nunes, Eleni E. Efstathiou, Fernanda I FI. Staquicini, Andrey S AS. Dobroff, Serena S. Marchiò, Nora M NM. Navone, Hitomi H. Hosoya, Richard C RC. Lauer, Sijin S. Wen, Carolina C CC. Salmeron, Anh A. Hoang, Irene I. Newsham, Leandro A LA. Lima, Dirce M DM. Carraro, Salvatore S. Oliviero, Mikhail G MG. Kolonin, Richard L RL. Sidman, Kim-Anh KA. Do, Patricia P. Troncoso, Christopher J CJ. Logothetis, Ricardo R RR. Brentani, George A GA. Calin, Webster K WK. Cavenee, Emmanuel E. Dias-Neto, Renata R. Pasqualini, Wadih W. Arap
Abstract: Prostate cancer antigen 3 (PCA3) is the most specific prostate cancer biomarker but its function remains unknown. Here we identify PRUNE2, a target protein-coding gene variant, which harbors the PCA3 locus, thereby classifying PCA3 as an antisense intronic long noncoding (lnc)RNA. We show that PCA3 controls PRUNE2 levels via a unique regulatory mechanism involving formation of a PRUNE2/PCA3 double-stranded RNA that undergoes adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR)-dependent adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing. PRUNE2 expression or silencing in prostate cancer cells decreased and increased cell proliferation, respectively. Moreover, PRUNE2 and PCA3 elicited opposite effects on tumor growth in immunodeficient tumor-bearing mice. Coregulation and RNA editing of PRUNE2 and PCA3 were confirmed in human prostate cancer specimens, supporting the medical relevance of our findings. These results establish PCA3 as a dominant-negative oncogene and PRUNE2 as an unrecognized tumor suppressor gene in human prostate cancer, and their regulatory axis represents a unique molecular target for diagnostic and therapeutic intervention.


Title #23: Influence of support morphology on the bonding of molecules to nanoparticles.
PMID: 26080433
Authors: Chi Ming CM. Yim, Chi L CL. Pang, Diego R DR. Hermoso, Coinneach M CM. Dover, Christopher A CA. Muryn, Francesco F. Maccherozzi, Sarnjeet S SS. Dhesi, Rubén R. Pérez, Geoff G. Thornton
Abstract: Supported metal nanoparticles form the basis of heterogeneous catalysts. Above a certain nanoparticle size, it is generally assumed that adsorbates bond in an identical fashion as on a semiinfinite crystal. This assumption has allowed the database on metal single crystals accumulated over the past 40 years to be used to model heterogeneous catalysts. Using a surface science approach to CO adsorption on supported Pd nanoparticles, we show that this assumption may be flawed. Near-edge X-ray absorption fine structure measurements, isolated to one nanoparticle, show that CO bonds upright on the nanoparticle top facets as expected from single-crystal data. However, the CO lateral registry differs from the single crystal. Our calculations indicate that this is caused by the strain on the nanoparticle, induced by carpet growth across the substrate step edges. This strain also weakens the CO-metal bond, which will reduce the energy barrier for catalytic reactions, including CO oxidation.


Title #24: Mediation of donor-acceptor distance in an enzymatic methyl transfer reaction.
PMID: 26080432
Authors: Jianyu J. Zhang, Heather J HJ. Kulik, Todd J TJ. Martinez, Judith P JP. Klinman
Abstract: Enzymatic methyl transfer, catalyzed by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), is investigated using binding isotope effects (BIEs), time-resolved fluorescence lifetimes, Stokes shifts, and extended graphics processing unit (GPU)-based quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) approaches. The WT enzyme is compared with mutants at Tyr68, a conserved residue that is located behind the reactive sulfur of cofactor. Small (>1) BIEs are observed for an S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet)-binary and abortive ternary complex containing 8-hydroxyquinoline, and contrast with previously reported inverse (<1) kinetic isotope effects (KIEs). Extended GPU-based computational studies of a ternary complex containing catecholate show a clear trend in ground state structures, from noncanonical bond lengths for WT toward solution values with mutants. Structural and dynamical differences that are sensitive to Tyr68 have also been detected using time-resolved Stokes shift measurements and molecular dynamics. These experimental and computational results are discussed in the context of active site compaction that requires an ionization of substrate within the enzyme ternary complex.


Title #25: Functional organization of the human 4D Nucleome.
PMID: 26080430
Authors: Haiming H. Chen, Jie J. Chen, Lindsey A LA. Muir, Scott S. Ronquist, Walter W. Meixner, Mats M. Ljungman, Thomas T. Ried, Stephen S. Smale, Indika I. Rajapakse
Abstract: The 4D organization of the interphase nucleus, or the 4D Nucleome (4DN), reflects a dynamical interaction between 3D genome structure and function and its relationship to phenotype. We present initial analyses of the human 4DN, capturing genome-wide structure using chromosome conformation capture and 3D imaging, and function using RNA-sequencing. We introduce a quantitative index that measures underlying topological stability of a genomic region. Our results show that structural features of genomic regions correlate with function with surprising persistence over time. Furthermore, constructing genome-wide gene-level contact maps aided in identifying gene pairs with high potential for coregulation and colocalization in a manner consistent with expression via transcription factories. We additionally use 2D phase planes to visualize patterns in 4DN data. Finally, we evaluated gene pairs within a circadian gene module using 3D imaging, and found periodicity in the movement of clock circadian regulator and period circadian clock 2 relative to each other that followed a circadian rhythm and entrained with their expression.


Title #26: Analysis of the size dependence of macromolecular crowding shows that smaller is better.
PMID: 26080429
Authors: Kim A KA. Sharp
Abstract: The aqueous milieu inside cells contains as much as 30-40% dissolved protein and RNA by volume. This large concentration of macromolecules is expected to cause significant deviations from solution ideality. In vivo biochemical reaction rates and equilibria might differ significantly from those measured in the majority of in vitro experiments that are performed at much lower macromolecule concentrations. Consequently crowding, a nonspecific phenomenon believed to arise from the large excluded volume of these macromolecules, has been studied extensively by experimental and theoretical methods. However, the relevant theory has not been applied consistently. When the steric effects of macromolecular crowders and small molecules like water and ions are treated on an equal footing, the effect of the macromolecules is opposite to that commonly believed. Large molecules are less effective at crowding than water and ions. There is also a surprisingly weak dependence on crowder size. Molecules of medium size, ∼5 Å radius, have the same effect as much larger macromolecules like proteins and RNA. These results require a reassessment of observed high-concentration effects and of strategies to mimic in vivo conditions with in vitro experiments.


Title #27: Extreme ecosystem instability suppressed tropical dinosaur dominance for 30 million years.
PMID: 26080428
Authors: Jessica H JH. Whiteside, Sofie S. Lindström, Randall B RB. Irmis, Ian J IJ. Glasspool, Morgan F MF. Schaller, Maria M. Dunlavey, Sterling J SJ. Nesbitt, Nathan D ND. Smith, Alan H AH. Turner
Abstract: A major unresolved aspect of the rise of dinosaurs is why early dinosaurs and their relatives were rare and species-poor at low paleolatitudes throughout the Late Triassic Period, a pattern persisting 30 million years after their origin and 10-15 million years after they became abundant and speciose at higher latitudes. New palynological, wildfire, organic carbon isotope, and atmospheric pCO2 data from early dinosaur-bearing strata of low paleolatitudes in western North America show that large, high-frequency, tightly correlated variations in δ(13)Corg and palynomorph ecotypes occurred within a context of elevated and increasing pCO2 and pervasive wildfires. Whereas pseudosuchian archosaur-dominated communities were able to persist in these same regions under rapidly fluctuating extreme climatic conditions until the end-Triassic, large-bodied, fast-growing tachymetabolic dinosaurian herbivores requiring greater resources were unable to adapt to unstable high CO2 environmental conditions of the Late Triassic.


Title #28: The bHLH transcription factor BIS1 controls the iridoid branch of the monoterpenoid indole alkaloid pathway in Catharanthus roseus.
PMID: 26080427
Authors: Alex A. Van Moerkercke, Priscille P. Steensma, Fabian F. Schweizer, Jacob J. Pollier, Ivo I. Gariboldi, Richard R. Payne, Robin R. Vanden Bossche, Karel K. Miettinen, Javiera J. Espoz, Purin Candra PC. Purnama, Franziska F. Kellner, Tuulikki T. Seppänen-Laakso, Sarah E SE. O'Connor, Heiko H. Rischer, Johan J. Memelink, Alain A. Goossens
Abstract: Plants make specialized bioactive metabolites to defend themselves against attackers. The conserved control mechanisms are based on transcriptional activation of the respective plant species-specific biosynthetic pathways by the phytohormone jasmonate. Knowledge of the transcription factors involved, particularly in terpenoid biosynthesis, remains fragmentary. By transcriptome analysis and functional screens in the medicinal plant Catharanthus roseus (Madagascar periwinkle), the unique source of the monoterpenoid indole alkaloid (MIA)-type anticancer drugs vincristine and vinblastine, we identified a jasmonate-regulated basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor from clade IVa inducing the monoterpenoid branch of the MIA pathway. The bHLH iridoid synthesis 1 (BIS1) transcription factor transactivated the expression of all of the genes encoding the enzymes that catalyze the sequential conversion of the ubiquitous terpenoid precursor geranyl diphosphate to the iridoid loganic acid. BIS1 acted in a complementary manner to the previously characterized ethylene response factor Octadecanoid derivative-Responsive Catharanthus APETALA2-domain 3 (ORCA3) that transactivates the expression of several genes encoding the enzymes catalyzing the conversion of loganic acid to the downstream MIAs. In contrast to ORCA3, overexpression of BIS1 was sufficient to boost production of high-value iridoids and MIAs in C. roseus suspension cell cultures. Hence, BIS1 might be a metabolic engineering tool to produce sustainably high-value MIAs in C. roseus plants or cultures.


Title #29: Activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α stimulates ADAM10-mediated proteolysis of APP.
PMID: 26080426
Authors: Grant T GT. Corbett, Frank J FJ. Gonzalez, Kalipada K. Pahan
Abstract: Amyloid precursor protein (APP) derivative β-amyloid (Aβ) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Sequential proteolysis of APP by β-secretase and γ-secretase generates Aβ. Conversely, the α-secretase "a disintegrin and metalloproteinase" 10 (ADAM10) cleaves APP within the eventual Aβ sequence and precludes Aβ generation. Therefore, up-regulation of ADAM10 represents a plausible therapeutic strategy to combat overproduction of neurotoxic Aβ. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα) is a transcription factor that regulates genes involved in fatty acid metabolism. Here, we determined that the Adam10 promoter harbors PPAR response elements; that knockdown of PPARα, but not PPARβ or PPARγ, decreases the expression of Adam10; and that lentiviral overexpression of PPARα restored ADAM10 expression in Ppara(-/-) neurons. Gemfibrozil, an agonist of PPARα, induced the recruitment of PPARα:retinoid x receptor α, but not PPARγ coactivator 1α (PGC1α), to the Adam10 promoter in wild-type mouse hippocampal neurons and shifted APP processing toward the α-secretase, as determined by augmented soluble APPα and decreased Aβ production. Accordingly, Ppara(-/-) mice displayed elevated SDS-stable, endogenous Aβ and Aβ1-42 relative to wild-type littermates, whereas 5XFAD mice null for PPARα (5X/α(-/-)) exhibited greater cerebral Aβ load relative to 5XFAD littermates. These results identify PPARα as an important factor regulating neuronal ADAM10 expression and, thus, α-secretase proteolysis of APP.


Title #30: A set of NF-κB-regulated microRNAs induces acquired TRAIL resistance in Lung cancer.
PMID: 26080425
Authors: Young-Jun YJ. Jeon, Justin J. Middleton, Taewan T. Kim, Alessandro A. Laganà, Claudia C. Piovan, Paola P. Secchiero, Gerard J GJ. Nuovo, Ri R. Cui, Pooja P. Joshi, Giulia G. Romano, Gianpiero G. Di Leva, Bum-Kyu BK. Lee, Hui-Lung HL. Sun, Yonghwan Y. Kim, Paolo P. Fadda, Hansjuerg H. Alder, Michela M. Garofalo, Carlo M CM. Croce
Abstract: TRAIL (TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand) is a promising anticancer agent that can be potentially used as an alternative or complementary therapy because of its specific antitumor activity. However, TRAIL can also stimulate the proliferation of cancer cells through the activation of NF-κB, but the exact mechanism is still poorly understood. In this study, we show that chronic exposure to subtoxic concentrations of TRAIL results in acquired resistance. This resistance is associated with the increase in miR-21, miR-30c, and miR-100 expression, which target tumor-suppressor genes fundamental in the response to TRAIL. Importantly, down-regulation of caspase-8 by miR-21 blocks receptor interacting protein-1 cleavage and induces the activation of NF-κB, which regulates these miRNAs. Thus, TRAIL activates a positive feedback loop that sustains the acquired resistance and causes an aggressive phenotype. Finally, we prove that combinatory treatment of NF-κB inhibitors and TRAIL is able to revert resistance and reduce tumor growth, with important consequences for the clinical practice.


Title #31: A universal entropy-driven mechanism for thioredoxin-target recognition.
PMID: 26080424
Authors: Prakash B PB. Palde, Kate S KS. Carroll
Abstract: Cysteine residues in cytosolic proteins are maintained in their reduced state, but can undergo oxidation owing to posttranslational modification during redox signaling or under conditions of oxidative stress. In large part, the reduction of oxidized protein cysteines is mediated by a small 12-kDa thiol oxidoreductase, thioredoxin (Trx). Trx provides reducing equivalents for central metabolic enzymes and is implicated in redox regulation of a wide number of target proteins, including transcription factors. Despite its importance in cellular redox homeostasis, the precise mechanism by which Trx recognizes target proteins, especially in the absence of any apparent signature binding sequence or motif, remains unknown. Knowledge of the forces associated with the molecular recognition that governs Trx-protein interactions is fundamental to our understanding of target specificity. To gain insight into Trx-target recognition, we have thermodynamically characterized the noncovalent interactions between Trx and target proteins before S-S reduction using isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC). Our findings indicate that Trx recognizes the oxidized form of its target proteins with exquisite selectivity, compared with their reduced counterparts. Furthermore, we show that recognition is dependent on the conformational restriction inherent to oxidized targets. Significantly, the thermodynamic signatures for multiple Trx targets reveal favorable entropic contributions as the major recognition force dictating these protein-protein interactions. Taken together, our data afford significant new insight into the molecular forces responsible for Trx-target recognition and should aid the design of new strategies for thiol oxidoreductase inhibition.


Title #32: Three cyanobacteriochromes work together to form a light color-sensitive input system for c-di-GMP signaling of cell aggregation.
PMID: 26080423
Authors: Gen G. Enomoto, Rei R. Narikawa, Masahiko M. Ikeuchi
Abstract: Cyanobacteriochromes (CBCRs) are cyanobacterial photoreceptors that have diverse spectral properties and domain compositions. Although large numbers of CBCR genes exist in cyanobacterial genomes, no studies have assessed whether multiple CBCRs work together. We recently showed that the diguanylate cyclase (DGC) activity of the CBCR SesA from Thermosynechococcus elongatus is activated by blue-light irradiation and that, when irradiated, SesA, via its product cyclic dimeric GMP (c-di-GMP), induces aggregation of Thermosynechococcus vulcanus cells at a temperature that is suboptimum for single-cell viability. For this report, we first characterize the photobiochemical properties of two additional CBCRs, SesB and SesC. Blue/teal light-responsive SesB has only c-di-GMP phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity, which is up-regulated by teal light and GTP. Blue/green light-responsive SesC has DGC and PDE activities. Its DGC activity is enhanced by blue light, whereas its PDE activity is enhanced by green light. A ΔsesB mutant cannot suppress cell aggregation under teal-green light. A ΔsesC mutant shows a less sensitive cell-aggregation response to ambient light. ΔsesA/ΔsesB/ΔsesC shows partial cell aggregation, which is accompanied by the loss of color dependency, implying that a nonphotoresponsive DGC(s) producing c-di-GMP can also induce the aggregation. The results suggest that SesB enhances the light color dependency of cell aggregation by degrading c-di-GMP, is particularly effective under teal light, and, therefore, seems to counteract the induction of cell aggregation by SesA. In addition, SesC seems to improve signaling specificity as an auxiliary backup to SesA/SesB activities. The coordinated action of these three CBCRs highlights why so many different CBCRs exist.


Title #33: A century of sprawl in the United States.
PMID: 26080422
Authors: Christopher C. Barrington-Leigh, Adam A. Millard-Ball
Abstract: The urban street network is one of the most permanent features of cities. Once laid down, the pattern of streets determines urban form and the level of sprawl for decades to come. We present a high-resolution time series of urban sprawl, as measured through street network connectivity, in the United States from 1920 to 2012. Sprawl started well before private car ownership was dominant and grew steadily until the mid-1990s. Over the last two decades, however, new streets have become significantly more connected and grid-like; the peak in street-network sprawl in the United States occurred in ∼1994. By one measure of connectivity, the mean nodal degree of intersections, sprawl fell by ∼9% between 1994 and 2012. We analyze spatial variation in these changes and demonstrate the persistence of sprawl. Places that were built with a low-connectivity street network tend to stay that way, even as the network expands. We also find suggestive evidence that local government policies impact sprawl, as the largest increases in connectivity have occurred in places with policies to promote gridded streets and similar New Urbanist design principles. We provide for public use a county-level version of our street-network sprawl dataset comprising a time series of nearly 100 y.


Title #34: Rescaling of metal oxide nanocrystals for energy storage having high capacitance and energy density with robust cycle life.
PMID: 26080421
Authors: Hyung Mo HM. Jeong, Kyung Min KM. Choi, Tao T. Cheng, Dong Ki DK. Lee, Renjia R. Zhou, Il Woo IW. Ock, Delia J DJ. Milliron, William A WA. Goddard, Jeung Ku JK. Kang
Abstract: Nanocrystals are promising structures, but they are too large for achieving maximum energy storage performance. We show that rescaling 3-nm particles through lithiation followed by delithiation leads to high-performance energy storage by realizing high capacitance close to the theoretical capacitance available via ion-to-atom redox reactions. Reactive force-field (ReaxFF) molecular dynamics simulations support the conclusion that Li atoms react with nickel oxide nanocrystals (NiO-n) to form lithiated core-shell structures (Ni:Li2O), whereas subsequent delithiation causes Ni:Li2O to form atomic clusters of NiO-a. This is consistent with in situ X-ray photoelectron and optical spectroscopy results showing that Ni(2+) of the nanocrystal changes during lithiation-delithiation through Ni(0) and back to Ni(2+). These processes are also demonstrated to provide a generic route to rescale another metal oxide. Furthermore, assembling NiO-a into the positive electrode of an asymmetric device enables extraction of full capacitance for a counter negative electrode, giving high energy density in addition to robust capacitance retention over 100,000 cycles.


Title #35: Green spaces and cognitive development in primary schoolchildren.
PMID: 26080420
Authors: Payam P. Dadvand, Mark J MJ. Nieuwenhuijsen, Mikel M. Esnaola, Joan J. Forns, Xavier X. Basagaña, Mar M. Alvarez-Pedrerol, Ioar I. Rivas, Mónica M. López-Vicente, Montserrat M. De Castro Pascual, Jason J. Su, Michael M. Jerrett, Xavier X. Querol, Jordi J. Sunyer
Abstract: Exposure to green space has been associated with better physical and mental health. Although this exposure could also influence cognitive development in children, available epidemiological evidence on such an impact is scarce. This study aimed to assess the association between exposure to green space and measures of cognitive development in primary schoolchildren. This study was based on 2,593 schoolchildren in the second to fourth grades (7-10 y) of 36 primary schools in Barcelona, Spain (2012-2013). Cognitive development was assessed as 12-mo change in developmental trajectory of working memory, superior working memory, and inattentiveness by using four repeated (every 3 mo) computerized cognitive tests for each outcome. We assessed exposure to green space by characterizing outdoor surrounding greenness at home and school and during commuting by using high-resolution (5 m × 5 m) satellite data on greenness (normalized difference vegetation index). Multilevel modeling was used to estimate the associations between green spaces and cognitive development. We observed an enhanced 12-mo progress in working memory and superior working memory and a greater 12-mo reduction in inattentiveness associated with greenness within and surrounding school boundaries and with total surrounding greenness index (including greenness surrounding home, commuting route, and school). Adding a traffic-related air pollutant (elemental carbon) to models explained 20-65% of our estimated associations between school greenness and 12-mo cognitive development. Our study showed a beneficial association between exposure to green space and cognitive development among schoolchildren that was partly mediated by reduction in exposure to air pollution.


Title #36: Inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 6 as a predisposing risk factor for the development of angina pectoris.
PMID: 26080419
Authors: Annie A. Gravel, Isabelle I. Dubuc, Guillaume G. Morissette, Ruth H RH. Sedlak, Keith R KR. Jerome, Louis L. Flamand
Abstract: Inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus-6 (iciHHV-6) results in the germ-line transmission of the HHV-6 genome. Every somatic cell of iciHHV-6+ individuals contains the HHV-6 genome integrated in the telomere of chromosomes. Whether having iciHHV-6 predisposes humans to diseases remains undefined. DNA from 19,597 participants between 40 and 69 years of age were analyzed by quantitative PCR (qPCR) for the presence of iciHHV-6. Telomere lengths were determined by qPCR. Medical records, hematological, biochemical, and anthropometric measurements and telomere lengths were compared between iciHHV-6+ and iciHHV-6- subjects. The prevalence of iciHHV-6 was 0.58%. Two-way ANOVA with a Holm-Bonferroni correction was used to determine the effects of iciHHV6, sex, and their interaction on continuous outcomes. Two-way logistic regression with a Holm-Bonferroni correction was used to determine the effects of iciHHV6, sex, and their interaction on disease prevalence. Of 50 diseases monitored, a single one, angina pectoris, is significantly elevated (3.3×) in iciHHV-6+ individuals relative to iciHHV-6- subjects (P = 0.017; 95% CI, 1.73-6.35). When adjusted for potential confounding factors (age, body mass index, percent body fat, and systolic blood pressure), the prevalence of angina remained three times greater in iciHHV-6+ subjects (P = 0.015; 95%CI, 1.23-7.15). Analyses of telomere lengths between iciHHV-6- without angina, iciHHV-6- with angina, and iciHHV-6+ with angina indicate that iciHHV-6+ with angina have shorter telomeres than age-matched iciHHV-6- subjects (P = 0.006). Our study represents, to our knowledge, the first large-scale analysis of disease association with iciHHV-6. Our results are consistent with iciHHV-6 representing a risk factor for the development of angina.


Title #37: Self-repairing symmetry in jellyfish through mechanically driven reorganization.
PMID: 26080418
Authors: Michael J MJ. Abrams, Ty T. Basinger, William W. Yuan, Chin-Lin CL. Guo, Lea L. Goentoro
Abstract: What happens when an animal is injured and loses important structures? Some animals simply heal the wound, whereas others are able to regenerate lost parts. In this study, we report a previously unidentified strategy of self-repair, where moon jellyfish respond to injuries by reorganizing existing parts, and rebuilding essential body symmetry, without regenerating what is lost. Specifically, in response to arm amputation, the young jellyfish of Aurelia aurita rearrange their remaining arms, recenter their manubria, and rebuild their muscular networks, all completed within 12 hours to 4 days. We call this process symmetrization. We find that symmetrization is not driven by external cues, cell proliferation, cell death, and proceeded even when foreign arms were grafted on. Instead, we find that forces generated by the muscular network are essential. Inhibiting pulsation using muscle relaxants completely, and reversibly, blocked symmetrization. Furthermore, we observed that decreasing pulse frequency using muscle relaxants slowed symmetrization, whereas increasing pulse frequency by lowering the magnesium concentration in seawater accelerated symmetrization. A mathematical model that describes the compressive forces from the muscle contraction, within the context of the elastic response from the mesoglea and the ephyra geometry, can recapitulate the recovery of global symmetry. Thus, self-repair in Aurelia proceeds through the reorganization of existing parts, and is driven by forces generated by its own propulsion machinery. We find evidence for symmetrization across species of jellyfish (Chrysaora pacifica, Mastigias sp., and Cotylorhiza tuberculata).


Title #38: Early Bronze Age migrants and ethnicity in the Middle Eastern mountain zone.
PMID: 26080417
Authors: Mitchell S MS. Rothman
Abstract: The Kura-Araxes cultural tradition existed in the highlands of the South Caucasus from 3500 to 2450 BCE (before the Christian era). This tradition represented an adaptive regime and a symbolically encoded common identity spread over a broad area of patchy mountain environments. By 3000 BCE, groups bearing this identity had migrated southwest across a wide area from the Taurus Mountains down into the southern Levant, southeast along the Zagros Mountains, and north across the Caucasus Mountains. In these new places, they became effectively ethnic groups amid already heterogeneous societies. This paper addresses the place of migrants among local populations as ethnicities and the reasons for their disappearance in the diaspora after 2450 BCE.


Title #39: Mx1 and Mx2 key antiviral proteins are surprisingly lost in toothed whales.
PMID: 26080416
Authors: Benjamin A BA. Braun, Amir A. Marcovitz, J Gray JG. Camp, Robin R. Jia, Gill G. Bejerano
Abstract: Viral outbreaks in dolphins and other Delphinoidea family members warrant investigation into the integrity of the cetacean immune system. The dynamin-like GTPase genes Myxovirus 1 (Mx1) and Mx2 defend mammals against a broad range of viral infections. Loss of Mx1 function in human and mice enhances infectivity by multiple RNA and DNA viruses, including orthomyxoviruses (influenza A), paramyxoviruses (measles), and hepadnaviruses (hepatitis B), whereas loss of Mx2 function leads to decreased resistance to HIV-1 and other viruses. Here we show that both Mx1 and Mx2 have been rendered nonfunctional in Odontoceti cetaceans (toothed whales, including dolphins and orcas). We discovered multiple exon deletions, frameshift mutations, premature stop codons, and transcriptional evidence of decay in the coding sequence of both Mx1 and Mx2 in four species of Odontocetes. We trace the likely loss event for both proteins to soon after the divergence of Odontocetes and Mystocetes (baleen whales) ∼33-37 Mya. Our data raise intriguing questions as to what drove the loss of both Mx1 and Mx2 genes in the Odontoceti lineage, a double loss seen in none of 56 other mammalian genomes, and suggests a hitherto unappreciated fundamental genetic difference in the way these magnificent mammals respond to viral infections.


Title #40: Cells transplanted onto the surface of the glial scar reveal hidden potential for functional neural regeneration.
PMID: 26080415
Authors: Tetsuji T. Sekiya, Matthew C MC. Holley, Kento K. Hashido, Kazuya K. Ono, Koichiro K. Shimomura, Rie T RT. Horie, Kiyomi K. Hamaguchi, Atsuhiro A. Yoshida, Tatsunori T. Sakamoto, Juichi J. Ito
Abstract: Cell transplantation therapy has long been investigated as a therapeutic intervention for neurodegenerative disorders, including spinal cord injury, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Indeed, patients have high hopes for a cell-based therapy. However, there are numerous practical challenges for clinical translation. One major problem is that only very low numbers of donor cells survive and achieve functional integration into the host. Glial scar tissue in chronic neurodegenerative disorders strongly inhibits regeneration, and this inhibition must be overcome to accomplish successful cell transplantation. Intraneural cell transplantation is considered to be the best way to deliver cells to the host. We questioned this view with experiments in vivo on a rat glial scar model of the auditory system. Our results show that intraneural transplantation to the auditory nerve, preceded by chondroitinase ABC (ChABC)-treatment, is ineffective. There is no functional recovery, and almost all transplanted cells die within a few weeks. However, when donor cells are placed on the surface of a ChABC-treated gliotic auditory nerve, they autonomously migrate into it and recapitulate glia- and neuron-guided cell migration modes to repair the auditory pathway and recover auditory function. Surface transplantation may thus pave the way for improved functional integration of donor cells into host tissue, providing a less invasive approach to rescue clinically important neural tracts.


Title #41: High-dose vitamin D3 reduces deficiency caused by low UVB exposure and limits HIV-1 replication in urban Southern Africans.
PMID: 26080414
Authors: Anna K AK. Coussens, Celeste E CE. Naude, Rene R. Goliath, George G. Chaplin, Robert J RJ. Wilkinson, Nina G NG. Jablonski
Abstract: Cape Town, South Africa, has a seasonal pattern of UVB radiation and a predominantly dark-skinned urban population who suffer high HIV-1 prevalence. This coexistent environmental and phenotypic scenario puts residents at risk for vitamin D deficiency, which may potentiate HIV-1 disease progression. We conducted a longitudinal study in two ethnically distinct groups of healthy young adults in Cape Town, supplemented with vitamin D3 in winter, to determine whether vitamin D status modifies the response to HIV-1 infection and to identify the major determinants of vitamin D status (UVB exposure, diet, pigmentation, and genetics). Vitamin D deficiency was observed in the majority of subjects in winter and in a proportion of individuals in summer, was highly correlated with UVB exposure, and was associated with greater HIV-1 replication in peripheral blood cells. High-dosage oral vitamin D3 supplementation attenuated HIV-1 replication, increased circulating leukocytes, and reversed winter-associated anemia. Vitamin D3 therefore presents as a low-cost supplementation to improve HIV-associated immunity.


Title #42: Quantitative methods of identifying the key nodes in the illegal wildlife trade network.
PMID: 26080413
Authors: Nikkita Gunvant NG. Patel, Chris C. Rorres, Damien O DO. Joly, John S JS. Brownstein, Ray R. Boston, Michael Z MZ. Levy, Gary G. Smith
Abstract: Innovative approaches are needed to combat the illegal trade in wildlife. Here, we used network analysis and a new database, HealthMap Wildlife Trade, to identify the key nodes (countries) that support the illegal wildlife trade. We identified key exporters and importers from the number of shipments a country sent and received and from the number of connections a country had to other countries over a given time period. We used flow betweenness centrality measurements to identify key intermediary countries. We found the set of nodes whose removal from the network would cause the maximum disruption to the network. Selecting six nodes would fragment 89.5% of the network for elephants, 92.3% for rhinoceros, and 98.1% for tigers. We then found sets of nodes that would best disseminate an educational message via direct connections through the network. We would need to select 18 nodes to reach 100% of the elephant trade network, 16 nodes for rhinoceros, and 10 for tigers. Although the choice of locations for interventions should be customized for the animal and the goal of the intervention, China was the most frequently selected country for network fragmentation and information dissemination. Identification of key countries will help strategize illegal wildlife trade interventions.


Title #43: Parental care buffers against inbreeding depression in burying beetles.
PMID: 26080412
Authors: Natalie N. Pilakouta, Seonaidh S. Jamieson, Jacob A JA. Moorad, Per T PT. Smiseth
Abstract: When relatives mate, their inbred offspring often suffer a reduction in fitness-related traits known as "inbreeding depression." There is mounting evidence that inbreeding depression can be exacerbated by environmental stresses such as starvation, predation, parasitism, and competition. Parental care may play an important role as a buffer against inbreeding depression in the offspring by alleviating these environmental stresses. Here, we examine the effect of parental care on the fitness costs of inbreeding in the burying beetle Nicrophorus vespilloides, an insect with facultative parental care. We used a 2 × 2 factorial design with the following factors: (i) the presence or absence of a caring female parent during larval development and (ii) inbred or outbred offspring. We examined the joint influence of maternal care and inbreeding status on fitness-related offspring traits to test the hypothesis that maternal care improves the performance of inbred offspring more than that of outbred offspring. Indeed, the female's presence led to a higher increase in larval survival in inbred than in outbred broods. Receiving care at the larval stage also increased the lifespan of inbred but not outbred adults, suggesting that the beneficial buffering effects of maternal care can persist long after the offspring have become independent. Our results show that parental care has the potential to moderate the severity of inbreeding depression, which in turn may favor inbreeding tolerance and influence the evolution of mating systems and other inbreeding-avoidance mechanisms.


Title #44: Successional dynamics in Neotropical forests are as uncertain as they are predictable.
PMID: 26080411
Authors: Natalia N. Norden, Héctor A HA. Angarita, Frans F. Bongers, Miguel M. Martínez-Ramos, Iñigo I. Granzow-de la Cerda, Michiel M. van Breugel, Edwin E. Lebrija-Trejos, Jorge A JA. Meave, John J. Vandermeer, G Bruce GB. Williamson, Bryan B. Finegan, Rita R. Mesquita, Robin L RL. Chazdon
Abstract: Although forest succession has traditionally been approached as a deterministic process, successional trajectories of vegetation change vary widely, even among nearby stands with similar environmental conditions and disturbance histories. Here, we provide the first attempt, to our knowledge, to quantify predictability and uncertainty during succession based on the most extensive long-term datasets ever assembled for Neotropical forests. We develop a novel approach that integrates deterministic and stochastic components into different candidate models describing the dynamical interactions among three widely used and interrelated forest attributes-stem density, basal area, and species density. Within each of the seven study sites, successional trajectories were highly idiosyncratic, even when controlling for prior land use, environment, and initial conditions in these attributes. Plot factors were far more important than stand age in explaining successional trajectories. For each site, the best-fit model was able to capture the complete set of time series in certain attributes only when both the deterministic and stochastic components were set to similar magnitudes. Surprisingly, predictability of stem density, basal area, and species density did not show consistent trends across attributes, study sites, or land use history, and was independent of plot size and time series length. The model developed here represents the best approach, to date, for characterizing autogenic successional dynamics and demonstrates the low predictability of successional trajectories. These high levels of uncertainty suggest that the impacts of allogenic factors on rates of change during tropical forest succession are far more pervasive than previously thought, challenging the way ecologists view and investigate forest regeneration.


Title #45: Unifying account of visual motion and position perception.
PMID: 26080410
Authors: Oh-Sang OS. Kwon, Duje D. Tadin, David C DC. Knill
Abstract: Despite growing evidence for perceptual interactions between motion and position, no unifying framework exists to account for these two key features of our visual experience. We show that percepts of both object position and motion derive from a common object-tracking system-a system that optimally integrates sensory signals with a realistic model of motion dynamics, effectively inferring their generative causes. The object-tracking model provides an excellent fit to both position and motion judgments in simple stimuli. With no changes in model parameters, the same model also accounts for subjects' novel illusory percepts in more complex moving stimuli. The resulting framework is characterized by a strong bidirectional coupling between position and motion estimates and provides a rational, unifying account of a number of motion and position phenomena that are currently thought to arise from independent mechanisms. This includes motion-induced shifts in perceived position, perceptual slow-speed biases, slowing of motions shown in visual periphery, and the well-known curveball illusion. These results reveal that motion perception cannot be isolated from position signals. Even in the simplest displays with no changes in object position, our perception is driven by the output of an object-tracking system that rationally infers different generative causes of motion signals. Taken together, we show that object tracking plays a fundamental role in perception of visual motion and position.


Title #46: MPE-seq, a new method for the genome-wide analysis of chromatin structure.
PMID: 26080409
Authors: Haruhiko H. Ishii, James T JT. Kadonaga, Bing B. Ren
Abstract: The analysis of chromatin structure is essential for the understanding of transcriptional regulation in eukaryotes. Here we describe methidiumpropyl-EDTA sequencing (MPE-seq), a method for the genome-wide characterization of chromatin that involves the digestion of nuclei withMPE-Fe(II) followed by massively parallel sequencing. Like micrococcal nuclease (MNase), MPE-Fe(II) preferentially cleaves the linker DNA between nucleosomes. However, there are differences in the cleavage of nuclear chromatin by MPE-Fe(II) relative to MNase. Most notably, immediately upstream of the transcription start site of active promoters, we frequently observed nucleosome-sized (141-190 bp) and subnucleosome-sized (such as 101-140 bp) peaks of digested chromatin fragments with MPE-seq but not with MNase-seq. These peaks also correlate with the presence of core histones and could thus be due, at least in part, to noncanonical chromatin structures such as labile nucleosome-like particles that have been observed in other contexts. The subnucleosome-sized MPE-seq peaks exhibit a particularly distinct association with active promoters. In addition, unlike MNase, MPE-Fe(II) cleaves nuclear DNA with little sequence bias. In this regard, we found that DNA sequences at RNA splice sites are hypersensitive to digestion by MNase but not by MPE-Fe(II). This phenomenon may have affected the analysis of nucleosome occupancy over exons. These findings collectively indicate that MPE-seq provides a unique and straightforward means for the genome-wide analysis of chromatin structure with minimal DNA sequence bias. In particular, the combined use of MPE-seq and MNase-seq enables the identification of noncanonical chromatin structures that are likely to be important for the regulation of gene expression.


Title #47: COX/mPGES-1/PGE2 pathway depicts an inflammatory-dependent high-risk neuroblastoma subset.
PMID: 26080408
Authors: Karin K. Larsson, Anna A. Kock, Helena H. Idborg, Marie M. Arsenian Henriksson, Tommy T. Martinsson, John I JI. Johnsen, Marina M. Korotkova, Per P. Kogner, Per-Johan PJ. Jakobsson
Abstract: The majority of solid tumors are presented with an inflammatory microenvironment. Proinflammatory lipid mediators including prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) contribute to the establishment of inflammation and have been linked to tumor growth and aggressiveness. Here we show that high-risk neuroblastoma with deletion of chromosome 11q represents an inflammatory subset of neuroblastomas. Analysis of enzymes involved in the production of proinflammatory lipid mediators showed that 11q-deleted neuroblastoma tumors express high levels of microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1) and elevated levels of PGE2. High mPGES-1 expression also corresponded to poor survival of neuroblastoma patients. Investigation of the tumor microenvironment showed high infiltration of tumor-promoting macrophages with high expression of the M2-polarization markers CD163 and CD206. mPGES-1-expressing cells in tumors from different subtypes of neuroblastoma showed differential expression of one or several cancer-associated fibroblast markers such as vimentin, fibroblast activation protein α, α smooth muscle actin, and PDGF receptor β. Importantly, inhibition of PGE2 production with diclofenac, a nonselective COX inhibitor, resulted in reduced tumor growth in an in vivo model of 11q-deleted neuroblastoma. Collectively, these results suggest that PGE2 is involved in the tumor microenvironment of specific neuroblastoma subgroups and indicate that therapeutic strategies using existing anti-inflammatory drugs in combination with current treatment should be considered for certain neuroblastomas.


Title #48: Light-driven synchrony of Prochlorococcus growth and mortality in the subtropical Pacific gyre.
PMID: 26080407
Authors: Francois F. Ribalet, Jarred J. Swalwell, Sophie S. Clayton, Valeria V. Jiménez, Sebastian S. Sudek, Yajuan Y. Lin, Zackary I ZI. Johnson, Alexandra Z AZ. Worden, E Virginia EV. Armbrust
Abstract: Theoretical studies predict that competition for limited resources reduces biodiversity to the point of ecological instability, whereas strong predator/prey interactions enhance the number of coexisting species and limit fluctuations in abundances. In open ocean ecosystems, competition for low availability of essential nutrients results in relatively few abundant microbial species. The remarkable stability in overall cell abundance of the dominant photosynthetic cyanobacterium Prochlorococcus is assumed to reflect a simple food web structure strongly controlled by grazers and/or viruses. This hypothesized link between stability and ecological interactions, however, has been difficult to test with open ocean microbes because sampling methods commonly have poor temporal and spatial resolution. Here we use continuous techniques on two different winter-time cruises to show that Prochlorococcus cell production and mortality rates are tightly synchronized to the day/night cycle across the subtropical Pacific Ocean. In warmer waters, we observed harmonic oscillations in cell production and mortality rates, with a peak in mortality rate consistently occurring ∼6 h after the peak in cell production. Essentially no cell mortality was observed during daylight. Our results are best explained as a synchronized two-component trophic interaction with the per-capita rates of Prochlorococcus consumption driven either directly by the day/night cycle or indirectly by Prochlorococcus cell production. Light-driven synchrony of food web dynamics in which most of the newly produced Prochlorococcus cells are consumed each night likely enforces ecosystem stability across vast expanses of the open ocean.


Title #49: Streptococcus pneumoniae secretes hydrogen peroxide leading to DNA damage and apoptosis in lung cells.
PMID: 26080406
Authors: Prashant P. Rai, Marcus M. Parrish, Ian Jun Jie IJ. Tay, Na N. Li, Shelley S. Ackerman, Fang F. He, Jimmy J. Kwang, Vincent T VT. Chow, Bevin P BP. Engelward
Abstract: Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading cause of pneumonia and one of the most common causes of death globally. The impact of S. pneumoniae on host molecular processes that lead to detrimental pulmonary consequences is not fully understood. Here, we show that S. pneumoniae induces toxic DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) in human alveolar epithelial cells, as indicated by ataxia telangiectasia mutated kinase (ATM)-dependent phosphorylation of histone H2AX and colocalization with p53-binding protein (53BP1). Furthermore, results show that DNA damage occurs in a bacterial contact-independent fashion and that Streptococcus pyruvate oxidase (SpxB), which enables synthesis of H2O2, plays a critical role in inducing DSBs. The extent of DNA damage correlates with the extent of apoptosis, and DNA damage precedes apoptosis, which is consistent with the time required for execution of apoptosis. Furthermore, addition of catalase, which neutralizes H2O2, greatly suppresses S. pneumoniae-induced DNA damage and apoptosis. Importantly, S. pneumoniae induces DSBs in the lungs of animals with acute pneumonia, and H2O2 production by S. pneumoniae in vivo contributes to its genotoxicity and virulence. One of the major DSBs repair pathways is nonhomologous end joining for which Ku70/80 is essential for repair. We find that deficiency of Ku80 causes an increase in the levels of DSBs and apoptosis, underscoring the importance of DNA repair in preventing S. pneumoniae-induced genotoxicity. Taken together, this study shows that S. pneumoniae-induced damage to the host cell genome exacerbates its toxicity and pathogenesis, making DNA repair a potentially important susceptibility factor in people who suffer from pneumonia.


Title #50: Southern East Asian origin and coexpansion of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Beijing family with Han Chinese.
PMID: 26080405
Authors: Tao T. Luo, Iñaki I. Comas, Dan D. Luo, Bing B. Lu, Jie J. Wu, Lanhai L. Wei, Chongguang C. Yang, Qingyun Q. Liu, Mingyu M. Gan, Gang G. Sun, Xin X. Shen, Feiying F. Liu, Sebastien S. Gagneux, Jian J. Mei, Rushu R. Lan, Kanglin K. Wan, Qian Q. Gao
Abstract: The Beijing family is the most successful genotype of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and responsible for more than a quarter of the global tuberculosis epidemic. As the predominant genotype in East Asia, the Beijing family has been emerging in various areas of the world and is often associated with disease outbreaks and antibiotic resistance. Revealing the origin and historical dissemination of this strain family is important for understanding its current global success. Here we characterized the global diversity of this family based on whole-genome sequences of 358 Beijing strains. We show that the Beijing strains endemic in East Asia are genetically diverse, whereas the globally emerging strains mostly belong to a more homogenous subtype known as "modern" Beijing. Phylogeographic and coalescent analyses indicate that the Beijing family most likely emerged around 30,000 y ago in southern East Asia, and accompanied the early colonization by modern humans in this area. By combining the genomic data and genotyping result of 1,793 strains from across China, we found the "modern" Beijing sublineage experienced massive expansions in northern China during the Neolithic era and subsequently spread to other regions following the migration of Han Chinese. Our results support a parallel evolution of the Beijing family and modern humans in East Asia. The dominance of the "modern" Beijing sublineage in East Asia and its recent global emergence are most likely driven by its hypervirulence, which might reflect adaption to increased human population densities linked to the agricultural transition in northern China.


Title #51: Epidermal TRPM8 channel isoform controls the balance between keratinocyte proliferation and differentiation in a cold-dependent manner.
PMID: 26080404
Authors: Gabriel G. Bidaux, Anne-Sophie AS. Borowiec, Dmitri D. Gordienko, Benjamin B. Beck, George G GG. Shapovalov, Loïc L. Lemonnier, Matthieu M. Flourakis, Matthieu M. Vandenberghe, Christian C. Slomianny, Etienne E. Dewailly, Philippe P. Delcourt, Emilie E. Desruelles, Abigaël A. Ritaine, Renata R. Polakowska, Jean J. Lesage, Mounia M. Chami, Roman R. Skryma, Natalia N. Prevarskaya
Abstract: Deviation of the ambient temperature is one of the most ubiquitous stimuli that continuously affect mammals' skin. Although the role of the warmth receptors in epidermal homeostasis (EH) was elucidated in recent years, the mystery of the keratinocyte mild-cold sensor remains unsolved. Here we report the cloning and characterization of a new functional epidermal isoform of the transient receptor potential M8 (TRPM8) mild-cold receptor, dubbed epidermal TRPM8 (eTRPM8), which is localized in the keratinocyte endoplasmic reticulum membrane and controls mitochondrial Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]m). In turn, [Ca(2+)]m modulates ATP and superoxide ([Formula: see text]) synthesis in a cold-dependent manner. We report that this fine tuning of ATP and [Formula: see text] levels by cooling controls the balance between keratinocyte proliferation and differentiation. Finally, to ascertain eTRPM8's role in EH in vivo we developed a new functional knockout mouse strain by deleting the pore domain of TRPM8 and demonstrated that eTRPM8 knockout impairs adaptation of the epidermis to low temperatures.


Title #52: Mapping fast protein folding with multiple-site fluorescent probes.
PMID: 26080403
Authors: Maxim B MB. Prigozhin, Shu-Han SH. Chao, Shahar S. Sukenik, Taras V TV. Pogorelov, Martin M. Gruebele
Abstract: Fast protein folding involves complex dynamics in many degrees of freedom, yet microsecond folding experiments provide only low-resolution structural information. We enhance the structural resolution of the five-helix bundle protein λ6-85 by engineering into it three fluorescent tryptophan-tyrosine contact probes. The probes report on distances between three different helix pairs: 1-2, 1-3, and 3-2. Temperature jump relaxation experiments on these three mutants reveal two different kinetic timescales: a slower timescale for 1-3 and a faster one for the two contacts involving helix 2. We hypothesize that these differences arise from a single folding mechanism that forms contacts on different timescales, and not from changes of mechanism due to adding the probes. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the corresponding three distances in one published single-trajectory all-atom molecular-dynamics simulation of a similar mutant. Autocorrelation analysis of the trajectory reveals the same "slow" and "fast" distance change as does experiment, but on a faster timescale; smoothing the trajectory in time shows that this ordering is robust and persists into the microsecond folding timescale. Structural investigation of the all-atom computational data suggests that helix 2 misfolds to produce a short-lived off-pathway trap, in agreement with the experimental finding that the 1-2 and 3-2 distances involving helix 2 contacts form a kinetic grouping distinct from 1 to 3. Our work demonstrates that comparison between experiment and simulation can be extended to several order parameters, providing a stronger mechanistic test.


Title #53: Reduction of toxic RNAs in myotonic dystrophies type 1 and type 2 by the RNA helicase p68/DDX5.
PMID: 26080402
Authors: Karlie K. Jones, Christina C. Wei, Benedikt B. Schoser, Giovanni G. Meola, Nikolai N. Timchenko, Lubov L. Timchenko
Abstract: Myotonic dystrophies type 1 (DM1) and type 2 (DM2) are neuromuscular diseases, caused by accumulation of CUG and CCUG RNAs in toxic aggregates. Here we report that the increased stability of the mutant RNAs in both types of DM is caused by deficiency of RNA helicase p68. We have identified p68 by studying CCUG-binding proteins associated with degradation of the mutant CCUG repeats. Protein levels of p68 are reduced in DM1 and DM2 biopsied skeletal muscle. Delivery of p68 in DM1/2 cells causes degradation of the mutant RNAs, whereas delivery of p68 in skeletal muscle of DM1 mouse model reduces skeletal muscle myopathy and atrophy. Our study shows that correction of p68 may reduce toxicity of the mutant RNAs in DM1 and in DM2.


Title #54: Opacity and conductivity measurements in noble gases at conditions of planetary and stellar interiors.
PMID: 26080401
Authors: R Stewart RS. McWilliams, D Allen DA. Dalton, Zuzana Z. Konôpková, Mohammad F MF. Mahmood, Alexander F AF. Goncharov
Abstract: The noble gases are elements of broad importance across science and technology and are primary constituents of planetary and stellar atmospheres, where they segregate into droplets or layers that affect the thermal, chemical, and structural evolution of their host body. We have measured the optical properties of noble gases at relevant high pressures and temperatures in the laser-heated diamond anvil cell, observing insulator-to-conductor transformations in dense helium, neon, argon, and xenon at 4,000-15,000 K and pressures of 15-52 GPa. The thermal activation and frequency dependence of conduction reveal an optical character dominated by electrons of low mobility, as in an amorphous semiconductor or poor metal, rather than free electrons as is often assumed for such wide band gap insulators at high temperatures. White dwarf stars having helium outer atmospheres cool slower and may have different color than if atmospheric opacity were controlled by free electrons. Helium rain in Jupiter and Saturn becomes conducting at conditions well correlated with its increased solubility in metallic hydrogen, whereas a deep layer of insulating neon may inhibit core erosion in Saturn.


Title #55: Hemocyte differentiation mediates the mosquito late-phase immune response against Plasmodium in Anopheles gambiae.
PMID: 26080400
Authors: Ryan C RC. Smith, Carolina C. Barillas-Mury, Marcelo M. Jacobs-Lorena
Abstract: Plasmodium parasites must complete development in the mosquito vector for transmission to occur. The mosquito innate immune response is remarkably efficient in limiting parasite numbers. Previous work has identified a LPS-induced TNFα transcription factor (LITAF)-like transcription factor, LITAF-like 3 (LL3), which significantly influences parasite numbers. Here, we demonstrate that LL3 does not influence invasion of the mosquito midgut epithelium or ookinete-to-oocyst differentiation but mediates a late-phase immune response that decreases oocyst survival. LL3 expression in the midgut and hemocytes is activated by ookinete midgut invasion and is independent of the mosquito microbiota, suggesting that LL3 may be a component of a wound-healing response. LL3 silencing abrogates the ability of mosquito hemocytes to differentiate and respond to parasite infection, implicating hemocytes as critical modulators of the late-phase immune response.


Title #56: Deregulation of the Hippo pathway in soft-tissue sarcoma promotes FOXM1 expression and tumorigenesis.
PMID: 26080399
Authors: T S Karin TS. Eisinger-Mathason, Vera V. Mucaj, Kevin M KM. Biju, Michael S MS. Nakazawa, Mercy M. Gohil, Timothy P TP. Cash, Sam S SS. Yoon, Nicolas N. Skuli, Kyung Min KM. Park, Sharon S. Gerecht, M Celeste MC. Simon
Abstract: Genetic aberrations responsible for soft-tissue sarcoma formation in adults are largely unknown, with targeted therapies sorely needed for this complex and heterogeneous family of diseases. Here we report that that the Hippo pathway is deregulated in many soft-tissue sarcomas, resulting in elevated expression of the effector molecule Yes-Associated Protein (YAP). Based on data gathered from human sarcoma patients, a novel autochthonous mouse model, and mechanistic analyses, we determined that YAP-dependent expression of the transcription factor forkhead box M1 (FOXM1) is necessary for cell proliferation/tumorigenesis in a subset of soft-tissue sarcomas. Notably, FOXM1 directly interacts with the YAP transcriptional complex via TEAD1, resulting in coregulation of numerous critical pro-proliferation targets that enhance sarcoma progression. Finally, pharmacologic inhibition of FOXM1 decreases tumor size in vivo, making FOXM1 an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment of some sarcoma subtypes.


Title #57: Dynamics of the echolocation beam during prey pursuit in aerial hawking bats.
PMID: 26080398
Authors: Lasse L. Jakobsen, Mads Nedergaard MN. Olsen, Annemarie A. Surlykke
Abstract: In the evolutionary arms race between prey and predator, measures and countermeasures continuously evolve to increase survival on both sides. Bats and moths are prime examples. When exposed to intense ultrasound, eared moths perform dramatic escape behaviors. Vespertilionid and rhinolophid bats broaden their echolocation beam in the final stage of pursuit, presumably as a countermeasure to keep evading moths within their "acoustic field of view." In this study, we investigated if dynamic beam broadening is a general property of echolocation when catching moving prey. We recorded three species of emballonurid bats, Saccopteryx bilineata, Saccopteryx leptura, and Rhynchonycteris naso, catching airborne insects in the field. The study shows that S. bilineata and S. leptura maintain a constant beam shape during the entire prey pursuit, whereas R. naso broadens the beam by lowering the peak call frequency from 100 kHz during search and approach to 67 kHz in the buzz. Surprisingly, both Saccopteryx bats emit calls with very high energy throughout the pursuit, up to 60 times more than R. naso and Myotis daubentonii (a similar sized vespertilionid), providing them with as much, or more, peripheral "vision" than the vespertilionids, but ensonifying objects far ahead suggesting more clutter. Thus, beam broadening is not a fundamental property of the echolocation system. However, based on the results, we hypothesize that increased peripheral detection is crucial to all aerial hawking bats in the final stages of prey pursuit and speculate that beam broadening is a feature characterizing more advanced echolocation.


Title #58: Nuclear matrix-associated protein SMAR1 regulates alternative splicing via HDAC6-mediated deacetylation of Sam68.
PMID: 26080397
Authors: Kiran Kumar KK. Nakka, Nidhi N. Chaudhary, Shruti S. Joshi, Jyotsna J. Bhat, Kulwant K. Singh, Subhrangsu S. Chatterjee, Renu R. Malhotra, Abhijit A. De, Manas Kumar MK. Santra, F Jeffrey FJ. Dilworth, Samit S. Chattopadhyay
Abstract: Pre-mRNA splicing is a complex regulatory nexus modulated by various trans-factors and their posttranslational modifications to create a dynamic transcriptome through alternative splicing. Signal-induced phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of trans-factors are known to regulate alternative splicing. However, the role of other posttranslational modifications, such as deacetylation/acetylation, methylation, and ubiquitination, that could modulate alternative splicing in either a signal-dependent or -independent manner remain enigmatic. Here, we demonstrate that Scaffold/matrix-associated region-binding protein 1 (SMAR1) negatively regulates alternative splicing through histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6)-mediated deacetylation of RNA-binding protein Sam68 (Src-associated substrate during mitosis of 68 kDa). SMAR1 is enriched in nuclear splicing speckles and associates with the snRNAs that are involved in splice site recognition. ERK-MAPK pathway that regulates alternative splicing facilitates ERK-1/2-mediated phosphorylation of SMAR1 at threonines 345 and 360 and localizes SMAR1 to the cytoplasm, preventing its interaction with Sam68. We showed that endogenously, SMAR1 through HDAC6 maintains Sam68 in a deacetylated state. However, knockdown or ERK-mediated phosphorylation of SMAR1 releases the inhibitory SMAR1-HDAC6-Sam68 complex, facilitating Sam68 acetylation and alternative splicing. Furthermore, loss of heterozygosity at the Chr.16q24.3 locus in breast cancer cells, wherein the human homolog of SMAR1 (BANP) has been mapped, enhances Sam68 acetylation and CD44 variant exon inclusion. In addition, tail-vein injections in mice with human breast cancer MCF-7 cells depleted for SMAR1 showed increased CD44 variant exon inclusion and concomitant metastatic propensity, confirming the functional role of SMAR1 in regulation of alternative splicing. Thus, our results reveal the complex molecular mechanism underlying SMAR1-mediated signal-dependent and -independent regulation of alternative splicing via Sam68 deacetylation.


Title #59: Political influences on greenhouse gas emissions from US states.
PMID: 26080396
Authors: Thomas T. Dietz, Kenneth A KA. Frank, Cameron T CT. Whitley, Jennifer J. Kelly, Rachel R. Kelly
Abstract: Starting at least in the 1970s, empirical work suggested that demographic (population) and economic (affluence) forces are the key drivers of anthropogenic stress on the environment. We evaluate the extent to which politics attenuates the effects of economic and demographic factors on environmental outcomes by examining variation in CO2 emissions across US states and within states over time. We find that demographic and economic forces can in part be offset by politics supportive of the environment-increases in emissions over time are lower in states that elect legislators with strong environmental records.


Title #60: Dynamic reorganization of human resting-state networks during visuospatial attention.
PMID: 26080395
Authors: Sara S. Spadone, Stefania S. Della Penna, Carlo C. Sestieri, Viviana V. Betti, Annalisa A. Tosoni, Mauro Gianni MG. Perrucci, Gian Luca GL. Romani, Maurizio M. Corbetta
Abstract: Fundamental problems in neuroscience today are understanding how patterns of ongoing spontaneous activity are modified by task performance and whether/how these intrinsic patterns influence task-evoked activation and behavior. We examined these questions by comparing instantaneous functional connectivity (IFC) and directed functional connectivity (DFC) changes in two networks that are strongly correlated and segregated at rest: the visual (VIS) network and the dorsal attention network (DAN). We measured how IFC and DFC during a visuospatial attention task, which requires dynamic selective rerouting of visual information across hemispheres, changed with respect to rest. During the attention task, the two networks remained relatively segregated, and their general pattern of within-network correlation was maintained. However, attention induced a decrease of correlation in the VIS network and an increase of the DAN→VIS IFC and DFC, especially in a top-down direction. In contrast, within the DAN, IFC was not modified by attention, whereas DFC was enhanced. Importantly, IFC modulations were behaviorally relevant. We conclude that a stable backbone of within-network functional connectivity topography remains in place when transitioning between resting wakefulness and attention selection. However, relative decrease of correlation of ongoing "idling" activity in visual cortex and synchronization between frontoparietal and visual cortex were behaviorally relevant, indicating that modulations of resting activity patterns are important for task performance. Higher order resting connectivity in the DAN was relatively unaffected during attention, potentially indicating a role for simultaneous ongoing activity as a "prior" for attention selection.


Title #61: Nazi indoctrination and anti-Semitic beliefs in Germany.
PMID: 26080394
Authors: Nico N. Voigtländer, Hans-Joachim HJ. Voth
Abstract: Attempts at modifying public opinions, attitudes, and beliefs range from advertising and schooling to "brainwashing." Their effectiveness is highly controversial. In this paper, we use survey data on anti-Semitic beliefs and attitudes in a representative sample of Germans surveyed in 1996 and 2006 to show that Nazi indoctrination--with its singular focus on fostering racial hatred--was highly effective. Between 1933 and 1945, young Germans were exposed to anti-Semitic ideology in schools, in the (extracurricular) Hitler Youth, and through radio, print, and film. As a result, Germans who grew up under the Nazi regime are much more anti-Semitic than those born before or after that period: the share of committed anti-Semites, who answer a host of questions about attitudes toward Jews in an extreme fashion, is 2-3 times higher than in the population as a whole. Results also hold for average beliefs, and not just the share of extremists; average views of Jews are much more negative among those born in the 1920s and 1930s. Nazi indoctrination was most effective where it could tap into preexisting prejudices; those born in districts that supported anti-Semitic parties before 1914 show the greatest increases in anti-Jewish attitudes. These findings demonstrate the extent to which beliefs can be modified through policy intervention. We also identify parameters amplifying the effectiveness of such measures, such as preexisting prejudices.


Title #62: On some genetic consequences of social structure, mating systems, dispersal, and sampling.
PMID: 26080393
Authors: Bárbara R BR. Parreira, Lounès L. Chikhi
Abstract: Many species are spatially and socially organized, with complex social organizations and dispersal patterns that are increasingly documented. Social species typically consist of small age-structured units, where a limited number of individuals monopolize reproduction and exhibit complex mating strategies. Here, we model social groups as age-structured units and investigate the genetic consequences of social structure under distinct mating strategies commonly found in mammals. Our results show that sociality maximizes genotypic diversity, which contradicts the belief that social groups are necessarily subject to strong genetic drift and at high risk of inbreeding depression. Social structure generates an excess of genotypic diversity. This is commonly observed in ecological studies but rarely reported in population genetic studies that ignore social structure. This heterozygosity excess, when detected, is often interpreted as a consequence of inbreeding avoidance mechanisms, but we show that it can occur even in the absence of such mechanisms. Many seemly contradictory results from ecology and population genetics can be reconciled by genetic models that include the complexities of social species. We find that such discrepancies can be explained by the intrinsic properties of social groups and by the sampling strategies of real populations. In particular, the number of social groups and the nature of the individuals that compose samples (e.g., nonreproductive and reproductive individuals) are key factors in generating outbreeding signatures. Sociality is an important component of population structure that needs to be revisited by ecologists and population geneticists alike.


Title #63: Effects of Laser Printer-Emitted Engineered Nanoparticles on Cytotoxicity, Chemokine Expression, Reactive Oxygen Species, DNA Methylation, and DNA Damage: A Comprehensive in Vitro Analysis in Human Small Airway Epithelial Cells, Macrophages, and Lymphoblasts.
PMID: 26080392
Authors: Sandra V SV. Pirela, Isabelle R IR. Miousse, Xiaoyan X. Lu, Vincent V. Castranova, Treye T. Thomas, Yong Y. Qian, Dhimiter D. Bello, Lester L. Kobzik, Igor I. Koturbash, Philip P. Demokritou
Abstract: Engineered nanomaterials (ENMs) incorporated into toner formulations of printing equipment become airborne during their consumer use. Although information on the complex physicochemical and toxicological properties of both toner powders and printer-emitted particles (PEPs) continues to grow, most toxicological studies have primarily used raw toner powders rather than the actual PEPs, which are not representative of current exposures experienced at the consumer level during printing.


Title #64: Use of a Cumulative Exposure Index to Estimate the Impact of Tap-Water Lead Concentration on Blood Lead Levels in 1- to 5-Year-Old Children (Montreal, Canada).
PMID: 26080391
Authors: Gerard G. Ngueta, Belkacem B. Abdous, Robert R. Tardif, Julie J. St-Laurent, Patrick P. Levallois
Abstract: Drinking water is recognized as a source of lead (Pb) exposure. However, questions remain about the impact of chronic exposure to lead-contaminated water on internal dose.


Title #65: Salient Feature of Haptic-Based Guidance of People in Low Visibility Environments Using Hard Reins.
PMID: 26080390
Authors: Anuradha A. Ranasinghe, Nantachai N. Sornkarn, Prokar P. Dasgupta, Kaspar K. Althoefer, Jacques J. Penders, Thrishantha T. Nanayakkara
Abstract: This paper presents salient features of human-human interaction where one person with limited auditory and visual perception of the environment (a follower) is guided by an agent with full perceptual capabilities (a guider) via a hard rein along a given path. We investigate several salient features of the interaction between the guider and follower such as: 1) the order of an autoregressive (AR) control policy that maps states of the follower to actions of the guider; 2) how the guider may modulate the pulling force in response to the trust level of the follower; and 3) how learning may successively apportion the responsibility of control across different muscles of the guider. Based on experimental systems identification on human demonstrations from ten pairs of naive subjects, we show that guiders tend to adopt a third-order AR predictive control policy and followers tend to adopt second-order reactive control policy. Moreover, the extracted guider's control policy was implemented and validated by human-robot interaction experiments. By modeling the follower's dynamics with a time varying virtual damped inertial system, we found that it is the coefficient of virtual damping which is most sensitive to the trust level of the follower. We used these experimental insights to derive a novel controller that integrates an optimal order control policy with a push/pull force modulator in response to the trust level of the follower monitored using a time varying virtual damped inertial model.


Title #66: Anatomically Informed Metrics for Connectivity-based Cortical Parcellation from Diffusion MRI.
PMID: 26080389
Authors: Rosalia R. Tungaraza, Sonya S. Mehta, David D. Haynor, Thomas T. Grabowski
Abstract: Connectivity information derived from diffusion MRI can be used to parcellate the cerebral cortex into anatomically and functionally meaningful subdivisions. Acquisition and processing parameters can significantly affect parcellation results, and there is no consensus on best practice protocols. We propose a novel approach for evaluating parcellation based on measuring the degree to which parcellation conforms to known principles of brain organization, specifically cortical field homogeneity and inter-hemispheric homology. The proposed metrics are well behaved on morphologically-generated whole-brain parcels, where they correctly identify contralateral homologies, and give higher scores to anatomically versus arbitrarily generated parcellations. The measures show that individual cortical fields have characteristic connectivity profiles that are compact and separable, and that the topological arrangement of such fields is strongly conserved between hemispheres and individuals. The proposed metrics can be used to evaluate the quality of parcellations at the subject and group levels, and to improve acquisition and data processing for connectivity-based cortical parcellation.


Title #67: A Nearest Neighbor Classifier Employing Critical Boundary Vectors for Efficient On-Chip Template Reduction.
PMID: 26080388
Authors: Wenjun W. Xia, Yoshio Y. Mita, Tadashi T. Shibata
Abstract: Aiming at efficient data condensation and improving accuracy, this paper presents a hardware-friendly template reduction (TR) method for the nearest neighbor (NN) classifiers by introducing the concept of critical boundary vectors. A hardware system is also implemented to demonstrate the feasibility of using an field-programmable gate array (FPGA) to accelerate the proposed method. Initially, k-means centers are used as substitutes for the entire template set. Then, to enhance the classification performance, critical boundary vectors are selected by a novel learning algorithm, which is completed within a single iteration. Moreover, to remove noisy boundary vectors that can mislead the classification in a generalized manner, a global categorization scheme has been explored and applied to the algorithm. The global characterization automatically categorizes each classification problem and rapidly selects the boundary vectors according to the nature of the problem. Finally, only critical boundary vectors and k-means centers are used as the new template set for classification. Experimental results for 24 data sets show that the proposed algorithm can effectively reduce the number of template vectors for classification with a high learning speed. At the same time, it improves the accuracy by an average of 2.17% compared with the traditional NN classifiers and also shows greater accuracy than seven other TR methods. We have shown the feasibility of using a proof-of-concept FPGA system of 256 64-D vectors to accelerate the proposed method on hardware. At a 50-MHz clock frequency, the proposed system achieves a 3.86 times higher learning speed than on a 3.4-GHz PC, while consuming only 1% of the power of that used by the PC.


Title #68: Integrated Low-Rank-Based Discriminative Feature Learning for Recognition.
PMID: 26080387
Authors: Pan P. Zhou, Zhouchen Z. Lin, Chao C. Zhang
Abstract: Feature learning plays a central role in pattern recognition. In recent years, many representation-based feature learning methods have been proposed and have achieved great success in many applications. However, these methods perform feature learning and subsequent classification in two separate steps, which may not be optimal for recognition tasks. In this paper, we present a supervised low-rank-based approach for learning discriminative features. By integrating latent low-rank representation (LatLRR) with a ridge regression-based classifier, our approach combines feature learning with classification, so that the regulated classification error is minimized. In this way, the extracted features are more discriminative for the recognition tasks. Our approach benefits from a recent discovery on the closed-form solutions to noiseless LatLRR. When there is noise, a robust Principal Component Analysis (PCA)-based denoising step can be added as preprocessing. When the scale of a problem is large, we utilize a fast randomized algorithm to speed up the computation of robust PCA. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of our method.


Title #69: NDRC: A Disease-Causing Genes Prioritized Method Based on Network Diffusion and Rank Concordance.
PMID: 26080386
Authors: Minghong M. Fang, Xiaohua X. Hu, Yan Y. Wang, Junmin J. Zhao, Xianjun X. Shen, Tingting T. He
Abstract: Disease-causing genes prioritization is very important to understand disease mechanisms and biomedical applications, such as design of drugs. Previous studies have shown that promising candidate genes are mostly ranked according to their relatedness to known disease genes or closely related disease genes. Therefore, a dangling gene (isolated gene) with no edges in the network can not be effectively prioritized. These approaches tend to prioritize those genes that are highly connected in the PPI network while perform poorly when they are applied to loosely connected disease genes. To address these problems, we propose a new disease-causing genes prioritization method that based on network diffusion and rank concordance (NDRC). The method is evaluated by leave-one-out cross validation on 1931 diseases in which at least one gene is known to be involved, and it is able to rank the true causal gene first in 849 of all 2542 cases. The experimental results suggest that NDRC significantly outperforms other existing methods such as RWR, VAVIEN, DADA and PRINCE on identifying loosely connected disease genes and successfully put dangling genes as potential candidate disease genes. Furthermore, we apply NDRC method to study three representative diseases, Meckel syndrome 1, Protein C deficiency and Peroxisome biogenesis disorder 1A (Zellweger). Our study has also found that certain complex disease-causing genes can be divided into several modules that are closely associated with different disease phenotype.


Title #70: Gaze Estimation from Eye Appearance: A Head Pose-Free Method via Eye Image Synthesis.
PMID: 26080385
Authors: Feng F. Lu, Yusuke Y. Sugano, Takahiro T. Okabe, Yoichi Y. Sato
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of free head motion in appearance-based gaze estimation. This problem remains challenging because head motion changes eye appearance significantly, and thus training images captured for an original head pose cannot handle test images captured for other head poses. To overcome this difficulty, we propose a novel gaze estimation method that handles free head motion via eye image synthesis based on a single camera. Compared to conventional fixed head pose methods with original training images, our method only captures four additional eye images under four reference head poses, and then precisely synthesizes new training images for other unseen head poses in estimation. To this end, we propose a single-directional (SD) flow model to efficiently handle eye image variations due to head motion. We show how to estimate SD flows for reference head poses first, and then use them to produce new SD flows for training image synthesis. Finally, with synthetic training images, joint optimization is applied that simultaneously solves eye image alignment and gaze estimation. Evaluation of the method was conducted through experiments to assess its performance and demonstrate its effectiveness.


Title #71: Coding local and global binary visual features extracted from video sequences.
PMID: 26080384
Authors: Luca L. Baroffio, Antonio A. Canclini, Matteo M. Cesana, Alessandro A. Redondi, Marco M. Tagliasacchi, Stefano S. Tubaro
Abstract: Binary local features represent an effective alternative to real-valued descriptors, leading to comparable results for many visual analysis tasks, while being characterized by significantly lower computational complexity and memory requirements. When dealing with large collections, a more compact representation based on global features is often preferred, which can be obtained from local features by means of, e.g., the Bag-of- Visual Word (BoVW) model. Several applications, including for example visual sensor networks and mobile augmented reality, require visual features to be transmitted over a bandwidth-limited network, thus calling for coding techniques that aim at reducing the required bit budget, while attaining a target level of efficiency. In this paper we investigate a coding scheme tailored to both local and global binary features, which aims at exploiting both spatial and temporal redundancy by means of intra- and inter-frame coding. In this respect, the proposed coding scheme can be conveniently adopted to support the "Analyze-Then-Compress" (ATC) paradigm. That is, visual features are extracted from the acquired content, encoded at remote nodes, and finally transmitted to a central controller that performs visual analysis. This is in contrast with the traditional approach, in which visual content is acquired at a node, compressed and then sent to a central unit for further processing, according to the "Compress-Then-Analyze" (CTA) paradigm. In this paper we experimentally compare ATC and CTA by means of rate-efficiency curves in the context of two different visual analysis tasks: homography estimation and content-based retrieval. Our results show that the novel ATC paradigm based on the proposed coding primitives can be competitive with CTA, especially in bandwidth limited scenarios.


Title #72: Cross-view Action Recognition over Heterogeneous Feature Spaces.
PMID: 26080383
Authors: Xinxiao X. Wu, Han H. Wang, Cuiwei C. Liu, Yunde Y. Jia
Abstract: In cross-view action recognition, "what you saw" in one view is different from "what you recognize" in another view since the data distribution even the feature space can change from one view to another. In this paper, we address the problem of transferring action models learned in one view (source view) to another different view (target view), where action instances from these two views are represented by heterogeneous features. A novel learning method, called Heterogeneous Transfer Discriminantanalysis of Canonical Correlations (HTDCC), is proposed to discover a discriminative common feature space for linking source view and target view to transfer knowledge between them. Two projection matrices are learned to respectively map data from the source view and the target view into a common feature space via simultaneously minimizing the canonical correlations of inter-class training data, maximizing the canonical correlations of intra-class training data and reducing the data distribution mismatch between the source and target views in the common feature space. In our method, the source view and the target view neither share any common features nor have any corresponding action instances. Moreover, our HTDCC method is capable of handling only a few or even no labeled samples available in the target view, and can also be easily extended to the situation of multiple source views. We additionally propose a weighting learning framework for multiple source views adaptation to effectively leverage action knowledge learned from multiple source views for the recognition task in the target view. Under this framework, different source views are assigned different weights according to their different relevances to the target view. Each weight represents how contributive the corresponding source view is to the target view. Extensive experiments on the IXMAS dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of HTDCC on learning the common feature space for heterogeneous cross-view action recognition. In addition, the weighting learning framework can achieve promising results on automatically adapting multiple transferred source-view knowledge to the target view.


Title #73: Salient Region Detection via Integrating Diffusion-based Compactness and Local Contrast.
PMID: 26080382
Authors: Li L. Zhou, Zhaohui Z. Yang, Qing Q. Yuan, Zongtan Z. Zhou, Dewen D. Hu
Abstract: Salient region detection is a challenging problem and an important topic in computer vision. It has a wide range of applications such as object recognition and segmentation. Many approaches have been proposed to detect salient regions using different visual cues such as compactness, uniqueness, and objectness. However, each visual cue-based method has its own limitations. After analyzing the advantages and limitations of different visual cues, we found that compactness and local contrast are complementary to each other. Additionally, local contrast can very effectively recover incorrectly suppressed salient regions using compactness cues. Motivated by this, we propose a bottom-up salient region detection method that integrates compactness and local contrast cues. Furthermore, to produce a pixel-accurate saliency map that more uniformly covers the salient objects, we propagate the saliency information using a diffusion process. Our experimental results on four benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Our method produces more accurate saliency maps with better precision-recall curve and higher F-Measure than other nineteen state-of-the-arts approaches on ASD, CSSD, and ECSSD data sets.


Title #74: Simultaneous Registration of Location and Orientation in Intravascular Ultrasound Pullbacks Pairs via 3D Graph-Based Optimization.
PMID: 26080381
Authors: Ling L. Zhang, Andreas A. Wahle, Zhi Z. Chen, Li L. Zhang, Richard R. Downe, Tomas T. Kovarnik, Milan M. Sonka
Abstract: A novel method is reported for simultaneous registration of location (axial direction) and orientation (circumferential direction) of two intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) pullbacks of the same vessel taken at different times. Monitoring plaque progression or regression (e.g., during lipid treatment) is of high clinical relevance. Our method uses a 3D graph optimization approach, in which the cost function jointly reflects similarity of plaque morphology and plaque/perivascular image appearance. Graph arcs incorporate prior information about temporal correspondence of the two IVUS sequences and limited angular twisting between consecutive IVUS images. Additionally, our approach automatically identifies starting and ending frame pairs in the two IVUS pullbacks. Validation of our method was performed in 29 pairs of IVUS baseline/follow-up pullback sequences consisting of 8,622 IVUS image frames in total. In comparison to manual registration by three experts, the average location and orientation registration errors ranged from 0.72 mm to 0.79 mm and from 7.3 to 9.3, respectively, all close to the inter-observer variability with no difference being statistically significant (p = NS). Rotation angles determined by our automated approach and expert observers showed high correlation (r2 of 0.97 to 0.98) and agreed closely (mutual bias between the automated method and expert observers ranged from -1.57 to 0.15). Compared with state-of-the-art approaches, the new method offers lower errors in both location and orientation registration. Our method offers highly automated and accurate IVUS pullback registration and can be employed in IVUS-based studies of coronary disease progression, enabling more focal studies of coronary plaque development and transition of vulnerability.


Title #75: Statistical Biomechanical Surface Registration: Application to MR-TRUS Fusion for Prostate Interventions.
PMID: 26080380
Authors: Siavash S. Khallaghi, C Antonio CA. Sanchez, Abtin A. Rasoulian, Saman S. Nouranian, Silvia S. Chang, Peter P. Black, Aaron A. Fenster, Aaron A. Ward, Sidney S. Fels, Purang P. Abolmaesumi
Abstract: A common challenge when performing surfacebased registration of images is ensuring that the surfaces accurately represent consistent anatomical boundaries. Image segmentation may be difficult in some regions due to either poor contrast, low slice resolution, or tissue ambiguities. To address this, we present a novel non-rigid surface registration method designed to register two partial surfaces, capable of ignoring regions where the anatomical boundary is unclear. Our probabilistic approach incorporates prior geometric information in the form of a statistical shape model (SSM), and physical knowledge in the form of a finite element model (FEM).We validate results in the context of prostate interventions by registering pre-operative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to 3D transrectal ultrasound (TRUS). We show that both the geometric and physical priors significantly decrease net target registration error (TRE), leading to TREs of 2:350:81 mm and 2:810:66 mm when applied to full and partial surfaces, respectively.We investigate robustness in response to errors in segmentation, varying levels of missing data, and adjusting the tunable parameters. Results demonstrate that the proposed surface registration method is an efficient, robust, and effective solution for fusing data from multiple modalities.


Title #76: Statistical Interspace Models (SIMs): Application to Robust 3D Spine Segmentation.
PMID: 26080379
Authors: Isaac I. Castro, Jose J. Pozo, Marco M. Pereanez, Karim K. Lekadir, Aron A. Lazary, Alejandro A. Frangi
Abstract: Statistical shape models (SSM) are used to introduce shape priors in the segmentation of medical images. However, such models require large training datasets in the case of multiobject structures, since it is required to obtain not only the individual shape variations but also the relative position and orientation among objects. A solution to overcome this limitation is to model each individual shape independently. However, this approach does not take into account the relative position, orientations and shapes among the parts of an articulated object, which may result in unrealistic geometries, such as with object overlaps. In this article, we propose a new Statistical Model, the Statistical Interspace Model (SIM), which provides information about the interaction of all the individual structures by modeling the interspace between them. The SIM is described using relative position vectors between pair of points that belong to different objects that are facing each other. These vectors are divided into their magnitude and direction, each of these groups modeled as independent manifolds. The SIM was included in a segmentation framework that contains an SSM per individual object. This framework was tested using three distinct types of datasets of CT images of the spine. Results show that the SIM completely eliminated the inter-process overlap while improving the segmentation accuracy.


Title #77: Seamless Insertion of Pulmonary Nodules in Chest CT Images.
PMID: 26080378
Authors: Aria A. Pezeshk, Berkman B. Sahiner, Rongping R. Zeng, Adam A. Wunderlich, Weijie W. Chen, Nicholas N. Petrick
Abstract: The availability of large medical image datasets is critical in many applications such as training and testing of computer aided diagnosis (CAD) systems, evaluation of segmentation algorithms, and conducting perceptual studies. However, collection of data and establishment of ground truth for medical images are both costly and difficult. To address this problem, we are developing an image blending tool that allows users to modify or supplement existing datasets by seamlessly inserting a lesion extracted from a source image into a target image. In this study we focus on the application of this tool to pulmonary nodules in chest CT exams. We minimize the impact of user skill on the perceived quality of the composite image by limiting user involvement to two simple steps: the user first draws a casual boundary around a nodule in the source, and then selects the center of desired insertion area in the target. We demonstrate the performance of our system on clinical samples, and report the results of a reader study evaluating the realism of inserted nodules compared to clinical nodules. We further evaluate our image blending techniques using phantoms simulated under different noise levels and reconstruction filters. Specifically, we compute the area under the ROC curve (AUC) of the Hotelling observer (HO) and noise power spectrum (NPS) of regions of interest enclosing native and inserted nodules, and compare the detectability, noise texture, and noise magnitude of inserted and native nodules. Our results indicate the viability of our approach for insertion of pulmonary nodules in clinical CT images.


Title #78: Measurement issues in galvanic intrabody communication: influence of experimental setup.
PMID: 26080377
Authors: Maria M. Callejon, Javier J. Reina-Tosina, David D. Naranjo, Laura Maria LM. Roa
Abstract: The need for increasingly energyefficient and miniaturized bio-devices for ubiquitous health monitoring has paved the way for considerable advances in the investigation of techniques such as intrabody communication (IBC), which uses human tissues as a transmission medium. However, IBC still poses technical challenges regarding the measurement of the actual gain through the human body. The heterogeneity of experimental setups and conditions used together with the inherent uncertainty caused by the human body make the measurement process even more difficult.


Title #79: Omni-Directional Ultrasonic Powering for Millimeter-Scale Implantable Devices.
PMID: 26080376
Authors: Seung S. Song, Albert A. Kim, Babak B. Ziaie
Abstract: In addition to superior energy-conversion efficiency at millimeter scale dimensions, ultrasonic wireless powering offers deeper penetration depth and omni-directionality as compared to the traditional inductive powering method. This makes ultrasound an attractive candidate for powering deep-seated implantable medical devices. In this paper, we investigate ultrasonic powering of mm-scale devices with specific emphasize on the output power levels, efficiency, range, and omni-directionality. Piezoelectric receivers 1×5×1 mm3, 2×2×2 mm3 and 2×4×2 mm3 in size are able to generate 2.48, 8.7, and 12.0 mW of electrical power, while irradiated at 1.15 and 2.3 MHz within FDA limits for medical imaging (peak acoustic intensity of 720 mW/cm2). The receivers have corresponding efficiencies of 0.4%, 1.7%, and 2.7%, respectively, at 20 cm powering distance. Due to the form factor and reflections from tissue-air boundaries, the output power stays constant to within 92% when the angular positions of the transmitter and receiver are varied around a cylindrical shell.


Title #80: An Automated Method for Landmark Identification and Finite Element Modeling of the Lumbar Spine.
PMID: 26080375
Authors: Julius J. Campbell, Anthony A. Petrella
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to develop a method for automated creation of finite element models of the lumbar spine.


Title #81: Design and Preliminary Experimental Investigation of a Capsule for Measuring Small Intestine Contraction Pressure.
PMID: 26080374
Authors: Pengbo P. Li, Vishal V. Kothari, Benjamin B. Terry
Abstract: A tethered pressure measurement capsule was developed for measuring small intestine contraction pressure to assist in locating capsules within the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and quantifying the contact force between the capsule and the small intestine lumen. The capsule was calibrated statically and dynamically in depth-controlled water at body temperature (37-38 ℃). In vitro tests were performed on an intestinal simulator to verify the measurement function of the capsule. To perform a preliminary evaluation of its pressure measuring capabilities, the capsule was tested at a single location in a live pig model. The pressure signal from the live animal test was analyzed in time domain and then Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD) and Fast Fourier Transformation (FFT) were applied to analyze contraction pressure and ambient pressure in the frequency domain. The contraction rate was 9.4 to 11.0 times per minute. The peak value of contraction pressure was 0.24 ± 0.05 kPa. The successful test of this prototype lays the groundwork for a future untethered, swallowable version of the capsule, which will be capable of measuring dynamic pressures while in transit.


Title #82: Automatic Feature Learning to Grade Nuclear Cataracts Based on Deep Learning.
PMID: 26080373
Authors: Xinting X. Gao, Stephen S. Lin, Tien T. Wong
Abstract: Cataracts are a clouding of the lens and the leading cause of blindness worldwide. Assessing the presence and severity of cataracts is essential for diagnosis and progression monitoring, as well as to facilitate clinical research and management of the disease.


Title #83: A Multiscale Tridomain Model for Simulating Bioelectric Gastric Pacing.
PMID: 26080372
Authors: Shameer S. Sathar, Mark M. Trew, Greg G. O Grady, Leo L. Cheng
Abstract: Gastric motility disorders have been associated with abnormal slow wave electrical activity ('gastric dysrhythmias'). Gastric pacing is a potential therapy for gastric dysrhythmias, however, new pacing protocols are required that can effectively modulate motility patterns, while being power efficient. This study presents a novel comprehensive 3D multiscale modeling framework of the human stomach, including anisotropic conduction, capable of evaluating pacing strategies.


Title #84: The trypanosome's spliced leader RNA is a more specific marker for cure of human African trypanosomiasis than DNA.
PMID: 26080371
Authors: Hamidou H. Ilboudo, Oumou O. Camara, Sophie S. Ravel, Bruno B. Bucheton, Veerle V. Lejon, Mamadou M. Camara, Jacques J. Kaboré, Vincent V. Jamonneau, Stijn S. Deborggraeve
Abstract: To assess the efficacy of treatment for human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), accurate tests that can discriminate relapsed from cured patients are needed. We here report the first data that the spliced leader (SL) RNA is a more specific marker for cure of HAT than parasite DNA. In blood samples from 61 cured HAT patients, SL-RNA detection showed specificities between 98.4% and 100%, while DNA detection only 77%. Our proof of concept data shows that SL-RNA detection has high potential as a test of cure.


Title #85: Kinetics of hemagglutination-inhibition antibodies following maternal influenza vaccination in HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected women-infant dyads.
PMID: 26080370
Authors: Marta C MC. Nunes, Clare L CL. Cutland, Bonnie B. Dighero, Janie J. Bate, Stephanie S. Jones, Andrea A. Hugo, Nadia N. van Niekerk, Locadiah L. Kuwanda, Alane A. Izu, Adriana A. Weinberg, Shabir A SA. Madhi, 
Abstract:  We evaluated the immunogenicity of trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (IIV3) in HIV-infected and uninfected pregnant women and the persistence of hemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) antibodies in mothers and infants.


Title #86: The influence of biofilm formation by Gardnerella vaginalis and other anaerobes on bacterial vaginosis.
PMID: 26080369
Authors: António A. Machado, Nuno N. Cerca
Abstract: Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the worldwide leading vaginal disorder in women of reproductive age. BV is characterized by the replacement of beneficial lactobacilli and the augmentation of anaerobic bacteria. Gardnerella vaginalis is a predominant bacterial species, however, BV is also associated with other numerous anaerobes, such as Atopobium vaginae, Mobiluncus mulieris, Prevotella bivia, Fusobacterium nucleatum and Peptoniphilus sp.. Currently, the role of G. vaginalis in the etiology of BV remains a matter of controversy. It is however known that, in BV patients, a biofilm is usually formed on the vaginal epithelium and G. vaginalis is typically the predominant species. So, the current paradigm is that the establishment of a biofilm plays a key role in the pathogenesis of BV. This review provides background on the influence of biofilm formation by G. vaginalis and other anaerobes in the polymicrobial etiology of BV, through its initial adhesion until biofilm formation and discusses the commensal and synergic interactions established between them to understand the phenotypic shift of G. vaginalis' biofilms into BV establishment.


Title #87: Cytokine-mediated loss of blood dendritic cells during EBV-associated acute infectious mononucleosis: Implication for immune dysregulation.
PMID: 26080368
Authors: Archana A. Panikkar, Corey C. Smith, Andrew A. Hislop, Nick N. Tellam, Vijayendra V. Dasari, Kristin A KA. Hogquist, Michelle M. Wykes, Denis J DJ. Moss, Alan A. Rickinson, Henry H HH. Balfour, Rajiv R. Khanna
Abstract: Acute infectious mononucleosis (IM) is associated with altered expression of inflammatory cytokines and disturbed T cell homeostasis, however, the precise mechanism of this immune dysregulation remains unresolved. Here we show that a significant loss of circulating myeloid and plasmacytoid DCs is observed during acute IM and this loss correlated with the severity of clinical symptoms. Interestingly, in vitro exposure of blood DCs to acute IM plasma resulted in loss of pDCs and further studies with individual cytokines showed that IL-10 exposure could replicate this effect. Our data provides important mechanistic insight on dysregulated immune homeostasis during acute IM.


Title #88: Elimination of Influences of the ACTN3 R577X Variant on Oxygen Uptake by Endurance Training in Healthy Individuals.
PMID: 26080367
Authors: S M SM. Silva M, Wladimir W. Bolani, Cleber R CR. Alves, Diogo G DG. Biagi, José R JR. Lemos, Jeferson L JL. da Silva, Patrícia A PA. de Oliveira, Guilherme B GB. Alves, Edilamar M EM. de Oliveira, Carlos E CE. Negrão, José E JE. Krieger, Rodrigo G RG. Dias, Alexandre C AC. Pereira
Abstract: To study the relationship between the ACTN3 R577X polymorphism and oxygen uptake (VO2) before and after exercise training.


Title #89: Nonfunctional Overreaching, Witches, and the Tour de France.
PMID: 26080366
Authors: Jos J JJ. de Koning
Abstract: No abstract available for this article.


Title #90: Application of the Abridged SimSmoke model to four Eastern Mediterranean countries.
PMID: 26080365
Authors: David T DT. Levy, Heba H. Fouad, Jeffrey J. Levy, Anca D AD. Dragomir, Fatima F. El Awa
Abstract: The WHO established the MPOWER policy package to boost the implementation of the WHO Framework Convention for Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC) in 2008 and to provide practical guidance on policies effective at reducing smoking rates. An easily applied Abridged SimSmoke was developed to help countries gauge the effect of these policies using data from the WHO MPOWER/WHO Report (MPOWER Report) and is applied to four Eastern Mediterranean countries.


Title #91: A mixed methods study of the barriers and enablers in implementing antimicrobial stewardship programmes in Australian regional and rural hospitals.
PMID: 26080364
Authors: Rodney R. James, Susan S. Luu, Minyon M. Avent, Caroline C. Marshall, Karin K. Thursky, Kirsty K. Buising
Abstract: The Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care released recommendations for antimicrobial stewardship programmes to be established within all Australian healthcare facilities. However, implementation practices are not well defined. The aim of this study was to gain an understanding of factors affecting implementation of antimicrobial stewardship programmes within Australian regional and rural hospitals.


Title #92: Prevalence of Plasmodium falciparum parasites resistant to sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine in pregnant women in Yaoundé, Cameroon: emergence of highly resistant pfdhfr/pfdhps alleles.
PMID: 26080363
Authors: Pamela P. Chauvin, Sandie S. Menard, Xavier X. Iriart, Sandrine E SE. Nsango, Majoline T MT. Tchioffo, Luc L. Abate, Parfait H PH. Awono-Ambéné, Isabelle I. Morlais, Antoine A. Berry
Abstract: To determine, 6 years after the adoption of intermittent preventive treatment of pregnant women with sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine (IPTp-SP) in Cameroon, (i) the polymorphism and prevalence of Plasmodium falciparum dihydrofolate reductase (pfdhfr) and dihydropteroate synthase (pfdhps) gene mutations associated with sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine resistance and (ii) the consequences of sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine use in the selection of pfdhfr/pfdhps alleles.


Title #93: CaMKIIδ mediates β-adrenergic effects on RyR2 phosphorylation and SR Ca(2+) leak and the pathophysiological response to chronic β-adrenergic stimulation.
PMID: 26080362
Authors: Michael M. Grimm, Haiyun H. Ling, Laetitia L. Pereira, Andrew A. Willeford, Charles B B CB. Gray, Jeffrey R JR. Erickson, Satyam S. Sarma, Jonathan L JL. Respress, Xander H T XH. Wehrens, Donald M DM. Bers, Joan Heller JH. Brown
Abstract: Chronic activation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) has been implicated in the deleterious effects of β-adrenergic receptor (β-AR) signaling on the heart, in part by enhancing RyR2-mediated sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) leak. We used CaMKIIδ knockout (CaMKIIδ-KO) mice, and knock-in mice with an inactivated CaMKII site S2814 on the ryanodine receptor type-2 (S2814A), to interrogate the involvement of these processes in β-AR signaling and cardiac remodeling. Langendorff-perfused hearts from CaMKIIδ-KO mice showed inotropic and chronotropic responses to isoproterenol (ISO) that were similar to those of wild type (WT) mice, however in CaMKIIδ-KO mice CaMKII phosphorylation of phospholamban and RyR2 was decreased and isolated myocytes from CaMKIIδ-KO mice had reduced SR Ca(2+) leak in response to isoproterenol (ISO). Chronic catecholamine stress with ISO induced comparable increases in relative heart weight and other measures of hypertrophy from day 9 through week 4 in WT and CaMKIIδ-KO mice, but development of cardiac fibrosis was prevented in CaMKIIδ-KO animals. A 4-week challenge with ISO resulted in reduced cardiac function and pulmonary congestion in WT, but not in CaMKIIδ-KO or S2814A mice, implicating CaMKIIδ-dependent phosphorylation of RyR2-S2814 in the cardiomyopathy, independent of hypertrophy, induced by prolonged β-AR stimulation.


Title #94: Building a Better Infarct: Modulation of Collagen Cross-linking to Increase Infarct Stiffness and Reduce Left Ventricular Dilation post-Myocardial Infarction.
PMID: 26080361
Authors: Andrew P AP. Voorhees, Kristine Y KY. DeLeon-Pennell, Yonggang Y. Ma, Ganesh V GV. Halade, Andriy A. Yabluchanskiy, Rugmani Padmanabhan RP. Iyer, Elizabeth E. Flynn, Courtney A CA. Cates, Merry L ML. Lindsey, Hai-Chao HC. Han
Abstract: Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) deletion attenuates collagen accumulation and dilation of the left ventricle (LV) post-myocardial infarction (MI); however the biomechanical mechanisms underlying the improved outcome are poorly understood. The aim of this study was to determine the mechanisms whereby MMP-9 deletion alters collagen network composition and assembly in the LV post-MI to modulate the mechanical properties of myocardial scar tissue. Adult C57BL/6J wild-type (WT; n=88) and MMP-9 null (MMP-9(-/-); n=92) mice of both sexes underwent permanent coronary artery ligation and were compared to day 0 controls (n=42). At day 7 post-MI, WT LVs displayed a 3-fold increase in end-diastolic volume, while MMP-9(-/-) showed only a 2-fold increase (p<0.05). Biaxial mechanical testing revealed that MMP-9(-/-) infarcts were stiffer than WT infarcts, as indicated by a 1.3-fold reduction in predicted in vivo circumferential stretch (p<0.05). Paradoxically, MMP-9(-/-) infarcts had a 1.8-fold reduction in collagen deposition (p<0.05). This apparent contradiction was explained by a 3.1-fold increase in lysyl oxidase (p<0.05) in MMP-9(-/-) infarcts, indicating that MMP-9 deletion increased collagen cross-linking activity. Furthermore, MMP-9 deletion led to a 3.0-fold increase in bone morphogenetic protein-1, the metalloproteinase that cleaves pro-collagen and pro-lysyl oxidase (p<0.05) and reduced fibronectin fragmentation by 49% (p<0.05) to enhance lysyl oxidase activity. We conclude that MMP-9 deletion increases infarct stiffness and prevents LV dilation by reducing collagen degradation and facilitating collagen assembly and cross-linking through preservation of the fibronectin network and activation of lysyl oxidase.


Title #95: Qgui: A high-throughput interface for automated setup and analysis of free energy calculations and empirical valence bond simulations in biological systems.
PMID: 26080356
Authors: Geir Villy GV. Isaksen, Tor Arne Heim TA. Andberg, Johan J. Åqvist, Bjørn Olav BO. Brandsdal
Abstract: Structural information and activity data has increased rapidly for many protein targets during the last decades. In this paper, we present a high-throughput interface (Qgui) for automated free energy and empirical valence bond (EVB) calculations that use molecular dynamics (MD) simulations for conformational sampling. Applications to ligand binding using both the linear interaction energy (LIE) method and the free energy perturbation (FEP) technique are given using the estrogen receptor (ERα) as a model system. Examples of free energy profiles obtained using the EVB method for the rate-limiting step of the enzymatic reaction catalyzed by trypsin are also shown. In addition, we present calculation of high-precision Arrhenius plots to obtain the thermodynamic activation enthalpy and entropy with Qgui from running a large number of EVB simulations.


Title #96: Studying the binding interactions of allosteric agonists and antagonists of the CXCR4 receptor.
PMID: 26080355
Authors: Jesús M JM. Planesas, Violeta I VI. Pérez-Nueno, José I JI. Borrell, Jordi J. Teixidó
Abstract: Several examples of allosteric modulators of GPCRs have been reported recently in the literature, but understanding their molecular mechanism presents a new challenge for medicinal chemistry. For the specific case of the cellular receptor CXCR4, it is known that pepducins (lipidated fragments of intracellular GPCR loops) such as ATI-2341 modulate CXCR4 activity agonistically via an allosteric mechanism. Moreover, there are also examples of small organic molecules such as AMD11070 and GSK812397 which may also act as allosteric antagonists. However, incomplete knowledge of the ligand-binding sites has hampered a detailed molecular understanding of how these inhibitors work. Here, we attempt to answer this question by analysing the binding interactions between the CXCR4 receptor and the above-mentioned allosteric modulators. We propose two different allosteric binding sites, one located in the intracellular loops 1, 2 and 3 (ICL1, ICL2 and ICL3) which binds the pepducin agonist ATI-2341, and the other at a subsite of the main extracellular orthosteric binding pocket between extracellular loops 1 and 2 and the N-terminus, which binds the antagonists AMD11070 and GSK812397. Allosteric interactions between the CXCR4 and ATI-2341 were predicted by combining different modeling approaches. First, a rotational blind docking search was applied and the best poses were subsequently refined using flexible docking methods and molecular dynamic simulations. For the AMD11070 and GSK812397 antagonists, the entire CXCR4 protein surface was explored by blind docking in order to define the binding region. A second docking analysis by subsites was then performed to refine the allosteric interactions. Finally, we identified the binding residues that appear to be essential for CXCR4 allosteric modulators.


Title #97: Sources and Focus of Health Development Assistance, 1990-2014.
PMID: 26080340
Authors: Joseph L JL. Dieleman, Casey C. Graves, Elizabeth E. Johnson, Tara T. Templin, Maxwell M. Birger, Hannah H. Hamavid, Michael M. Freeman, Katherine K. Leach-Kemon, Lavanya L. Singh, Annie A. Haakenstad, Christopher J L CJ. Murray
Abstract: The governments of high-income countries and private organizations provide billions of dollars to developing countries for health. This type of development assistance can have a critical role in ensuring that life-saving health interventions reach populations in need.


Title #98: Variation in Adenoma Detection Rate and the Lifetime Benefits and Cost of Colorectal Cancer Screening: A Microsimulation Model.
PMID: 26080339
Authors: Reinier G S RG. Meester, Chyke A CA. Doubeni, Iris I. Lansdorp-Vogelaar, Christopher D CD. Jensen, Miriam P MP. van der Meulen, Theodore R TR. Levin, Virginia P VP. Quinn, Joanne E JE. Schottinger, Ann G AG. Zauber, Douglas A DA. Corley, Marjolein M. van Ballegooijen
Abstract: Colonoscopy is the most commonly used colorectal cancer screening test in the United States. Its quality, as measured by adenoma detection rates (ADRs), varies widely among physicians, with unknown consequences for the cost and benefits of screening programs.


Title #99: Antibiotic Therapy vs Appendectomy for Treatment of Uncomplicated Acute Appendicitis: The APPAC Randomized Clinical Trial.
PMID: 26080338
Authors: Paulina P. Salminen, Hannu H. Paajanen, Tero T. Rautio, Pia P. Nordström, Markku M. Aarnio, Tuomo T. Rantanen, Risto R. Tuominen, Saija S. Hurme, Johanna J. Virtanen, Jukka-Pekka JP. Mecklin, Juhani J. Sand, Airi A. Jartti, Irina I. Rinta-Kiikka, Juha M JM. Grönroos
Abstract: An increasing amount of evidence supports the use of antibiotics instead of surgery for treating patients with uncomplicated acute appendicitis.


Title #100: Shell disorder, immune evasion and transmission behaviors among human and animal retroviruses.
PMID: 26080321
Authors: Gerard Kian-Meng GK. Goh, A Keith AK. Dunker, Vladimir N VN. Uversky
Abstract: This study involves measurements of percentages of intrinsic disorder (PIDs) in the GAG protein shells of various retroviruses. Unique patterns of shell protein disorder can be seen especially when GAG proteins (matrix M, capsid C, and nucleocapsid N) of primate and non-primate retroviruses are compared. HIV-1 presents the most unique pattern of disorder distribution with generally high levels of disorder in all three proteins, while EIAV (PIDs:: 26, 29, 13) is diametrically different from HIV-1 (N C M PIDs: 39.5 ± 3.0, 44.5 ± 2.6, 56.5 ± 10.8). The HTLV viruses (CPID: 32.8 ± 3.4) resemble HIV-2 (C PID: 26.6 ± 2.9) with a moderately disordered capsid. Totally distinct patterns, however, are seen for the non-primate retroviruses. They generally have highly disordered nucleocapsids (PID > 65%) and more ordered outer shells especially the matrix. These characteristics might be attributed to the differences in the way the retroviruses are transmitted, with non-primate viruses having greater non-sexual transmission components such as oral-fecal transmission. These differences are also evolutionarily related to the ways the viruses evade the host immune systems, and thus, have implications for oncolytic virotherapy and animal models in vaccine research. The importance of protein shell disorder in immune evasion, as related to the case of HIV-1, and the difficult search for its vaccines are highlighted.


Title #101: Longevity factor klotho and chronic psychological stress.
PMID: 26080320
Authors: A A AA. Prather, E S ES. Epel, J. J. Arenander, L. L. Broestl, B I BI. Garay, D. D. Wang, D B DB. Dubal
Abstract: Chronic psychological stress is associated with accelerated aging and premature morbidity and mortality; however, the biology linking chronic psychological stress and its maladaptive effects remains largely unknown. Klotho is a pleiotropic hormone that regulates the aging process and promotes better brain and body health. Whether klotho is linked to psychosocial stress or its negative impact in humans has not been investigated. To address this gap, we recruited 178 healthy women who were either chronically high-stress maternal caregivers for a child with autism spectrum disorder (n=90) or low-stress control mothers of a typically developing child (n=88). We found that women under high chronic stress displayed significantly lower levels of the longevity hormone klotho compared with low-stress controls (t(176)=2.92, P=0.004; d=0.44), and the decrease among those under high stress was age-dependent. In addition, high-stress caregivers who reported more depressive symptoms displayed even lower klotho levels compared with low-stress participants. These findings provide the first evidence that klotho levels are sensitive to psychosocial stressors and raise the possibility that klotho may serve as a novel biological link connecting stress, depression and risk for accelerated disease development. Furthermore, these findings have important implications for understanding the plasticity of the aging process and may represent a therapeutic target for mitigating the deleterious effects of chronic psychological stress on health and well-being.


Title #102: Plasma protein biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease endophenotypes in asymptomatic older twins: early cognitive decline and regional brain volumes.
PMID: 26080319
Authors: S J SJ. Kiddle, C J CJ. Steves, M. M. Mehta, A. A. Simmons, X. X. Xu, S. S. Newhouse, M. M. Sattlecker, N J NJ. Ashton, C. C. Bazenet, R. R. Killick, J. J. Adnan, E. E. Westman, S. S. Nelson, H. H. Soininen, I. I. Kloszewska, P. P. Mecocci, M. M. Tsolaki, B. B. Vellas, C. C. Curtis, G. G. Breen, S C R SC. Williams, S. S. Lovestone, T D TD. Spector, R J B RJ. Dobson
Abstract: There is great interest in blood-based markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD), especially in its pre-symptomatic stages. Therefore, we aimed to identify plasma proteins whose levels associate with potential markers of pre-symptomatic AD. We also aimed to characterise confounding by genetics and the effect of genetics on blood proteins in general. Panel-based proteomics was performed using SOMAscan on plasma samples from TwinsUK subjects who are asymptomatic for AD, measuring the level of 1129 proteins. Protein levels were compared with 10-year change in CANTAB-paired associates learning (PAL; n=195), and regional brain volumes (n=34). Replication of proteins associated with regional brain volumes was performed in 254 individuals from the AddNeuroMed cohort. Across all the proteins measured, genetic factors were found to explain ~26% of the variability in blood protein levels on average. The plasma level of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) MAPKAPK5 protein was found to positively associate with the 10-year change in CANTAB-PAL in both the individual and twin difference context. The plasma level of protein MAP2K4 was found to suggestively associate negatively (Q<0.1) with the volume of the left entorhinal cortex. Future studies will be needed to assess the specificity of MAPKAPK5 and MAP2K4 to eventual conversion to AD.


Title #103: The glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor as a potential treatment target in alcohol use disorder: evidence from human genetic association studies and a mouse model of alcohol dependence.
PMID: 26080318
Authors: P. P. Suchankova, J. J. Yan, M L ML. Schwandt, B L BL. Stangl, E C EC. Caparelli, R. R. Momenan, E. E. Jerlhag, J A JA. Engel, C A CA. Hodgkinson, M. M. Egli, M F MF. Lopez, H C HC. Becker, D. D. Goldman, M. M. Heilig, V A VA. Ramchandani, L. L. Leggio
Abstract: The hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) regulates appetite and food intake. GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) activation also attenuates the reinforcing properties of alcohol in rodents. The present translational study is based on four human genetic association studies and one preclinical study providing data that support the hypothesis that GLP-1R may have a role in the pathophysiology of alcohol use disorder (AUD). Case-control analysis (N=908) was performed on a sample of individuals enrolled in the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) intramural research program. The Study of Addiction: Genetics and Environment (SAGE) sample (N=3803) was used for confirmation purposes. Post hoc analyses were carried out on data from a human laboratory study of intravenous alcohol self-administration (IV-ASA; N=81) in social drinkers and from a functional magnetic resonance imaging study in alcohol-dependent individuals (N=22) subjected to a Monetary Incentive Delay task. In the preclinical study, a GLP-1R agonist was evaluated in a mouse model of alcohol dependence to demonstrate the role of GLP-1R for alcohol consumption. The previously reported functional allele 168Ser (rs6923761) was nominally associated with AUD (P=0.004) in the NIAAA sample, which was partially replicated in males of the SAGE sample (P=0.033). The 168Ser/Ser genotype was further associated with increased alcohol administration and breath alcohol measures in the IV-ASA experiment and with higher BOLD response in the right globus pallidus when receiving notification of outcome for high monetary reward. Finally, GLP-1R agonism significantly reduced alcohol consumption in a mouse model of alcohol dependence. These convergent findings suggest that the GLP-1R may be an attractive target for personalized pharmacotherapy treatment of AUD.


Title #104: Take it or leave it: prefrontal control in recreational cocaine users.
PMID: 26080317
Authors: S. S. Morein-Zamir, P. P. Simon Jones, E T ET. Bullmore, T W TW. Robbins, K D KD. Ersche
Abstract: Though stimulant drugs such as cocaine are considered highly addictive, some individuals report recreational use over long periods without developing dependence. Difficulties in response inhibition have been hypothesized to contribute to dependence, but previous studies investigating response inhibition in recreational cocaine users have reported conflicting results. Performance on a stop-signal task was examined in 24 recreational cocaine users and 32 healthy non-drug using control participants matched for age, gender and verbal intelligence during functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning. The two groups were further matched on traumatic childhood histories and the absence of family histories of addiction. Results revealed that recreational cocaine users did not significantly differ from controls on any index of task performance, including response execution and stop-signal reaction time, with the latter averaging 198 ms in both groups. Functional magnetic resonance imaging analyses indicated that, compared with controls, stopping in the recreational users was associated with increased activation in the pre-supplementary motor area but not the right inferior frontal cortex. Thus, findings imply intact response inhibition abilities in recreational cocaine users, though the distinct pattern of accompanying activation suggests increased recruitment of brain areas implicated in response inhibition. This increased recruitment could be attributed to compensatory mechanisms that enable preserved cognitive control in this group, possibly relating to their hypothetical resilience to stimulant drug dependence. Such overactivation, alternatively, may be attributable to prolonged cocaine use leading to neuroplastic adaptations.


Title #105: Telomere length is associated with oppositional defiant behavior and maternal clinical depression in Latino preschool children.
PMID: 26080316
Authors: J M JM. Wojcicki, M B MB. Heyman, D. D. Elwan, S. S. Shiboski, J. J. Lin, E. E. Blackburn, E. E. Epel
Abstract: Exposure to psychological stress and depression are associated with shorter white blood cell telomere length (TL) in adults, possibly via associated lifelong oxidative stressors. Exposure to maternal depression increases risk for future depression and behavior problems in children, and Latino youth are at high risk. Few studies have evaluated the role of exposure to maternal depression or child behavior in relation to TL in children. We assessed early-childhood exposures to maternal depression from birth to the age of 5 years and child behavior from ages 3-5 years in a cohort of Latino children in relation to child leukocyte TL at ages 4 and 5 years. Children who had oppositional defiant behavior at 3, 4 or 5 years had shorter TL than those without by ~450 base pairs (P<0.01). In multivariate analyses, independent predictors for shorter TL at 4 and 5 years of age included oppositional defiant disorder at 3, 4 or 5 years (β=-359.25, 95% CI -633.84 to 84.66; P=0.01), exposure to maternal clinical depression at 3 years of age (β=-363.99, 95% CI -651.24 to 764.74; P=0.01), shorter maternal TL (β=502.92, 95% CI 189.21-816.63) and younger paternal age at the child's birth (β=24.63, 95% CI 1.14-48.12). Thus, exposure to maternal clinical depression (versus depressive symptoms) in early childhood was associated with deleterious consequences on child cellular health as indicated by shorter TL at 4 and 5 years of age. Similarly, children with oppositional defiant behavior also had shorter TL, possibly related to early exposures to maternal clinical depression. Our study is the first to link maternal clinical depression and oppositional defiant behavior with shorter TL in the preschool years in a relatively homogenous population of low-income Latino children.


Title #106: Mitochondria-focused gene expression profile reveals common pathways and CPT1B dysregulation in both rodent stress model and human subjects with PTSD.
PMID: 26080315
Authors: L. L. Zhang, H. H. Li, X. X. Hu, D M DM. Benedek, C S CS. Fullerton, R D RD. Forsten, J A JA. Naifeh, X. X. Li, H. H. Wu, K N KN. Benevides, T. T. Le, S. S. Smerin, D W DW. Russell, R J RJ. Ursano
Abstract: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a trauma-related mental disorder, is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in the brain. However, the biologic approach to identifying the mitochondria-focused genes underlying the pathogenesis of PTSD is still in its infancy. Previous research, using a human mitochondria-focused cDNA microarray (hMitChip3) found dysregulated mitochondria-focused genes present in postmortem brains of PTSD patients, indicating that those genes might be PTSD-related biomarkers. To further test this idea, this research examines profiles of mitochondria-focused gene expression in the stressed-rodent model (inescapable tail shock in rats), which shows characteristics of PTSD-like behaviors and also in the blood of subjects with PTSD. This study found that 34 mitochondria-focused genes being upregulated in stressed-rat amygdala. Ten common pathways, including fatty acid metabolism and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) pathways were dysregulated in the amygdala of the stressed rats. Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1B (CPT1B), an enzyme in the fatty acid metabolism and PPAR pathways, was significantly over-expressed in the amygdala (P<0.007) and in the blood (P<0.01) of stressed rats compared with non-stressed controls. In human subjects with (n=28) or without PTSD (n=31), significant over-expression of CPT1B in PTSD was also observed in the two common dysregulated pathways: fatty acid metabolism (P=0.0027, false discovery rate (FDR)=0.043) and PPAR (P=0.006, FDR=0.08). Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction validated the microarray findings and the CPT1B result. These findings indicate that blood can be used as a specimen in the search for PTSD biomarkers in fatty acid metabolism and PPAR pathways, and, in addition, that CPT1B may contribute to the pathology of PTSD.


Title #107: Attention bias modification for social anxiety: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
PMID: 26080314
Authors: Alexandre A. Heeren, Cristina C. Mogoașe, Pierre P. Philippot, Richard J RJ. McNally
Abstract: Research on attention bias modification (ABM) for social anxiety disorder (SAD) is inconclusive, with some studies finding clear positive effects and other studies finding no significant benefit relative to control training procedures. In this meta-analysis, we assessed the efficacy of ABM for SAD on symptoms, reactivity to speech challenge, attentional bias (AB) toward threat, and secondary symptoms at posttraining as well as SAD symptoms at 4-month follow-up. A systematic search in bibliographical databases uncovered 15 randomized studies involving 1043 individuals that compared ABM to a control training procedure. Data were extracted independently by two raters. The Q statistic was used to assess homogeneity across trials. All analyses were conducted on intent-to-treat data. ABM produced a small but significant reduction in SAD symptoms (g=0.27), reactivity to speech challenge (g=0.46), and AB (g=0.30). These effects were moderated by characteristics of the ABM procedure, the design of the study, and trait anxiety at baseline. However, effects on secondary symptoms (g=0.09) and SAD symptoms at 4-month follow-up (g=0.09) were not significant. Although there was no indication of significant publication bias, the quality of the studies was substandard and wedged the effect sizes. From a clinical point of view, these findings imply that ABM is not yet ready for wide-scale dissemination as a treatment for SAD in routine care. Theoretical implications for the integration of AB in the conceptualization of SAD are discussed.


Title #108: Genetic dyslexia risk variant is related to neural connectivity patterns underlying phonological awareness in children.
PMID: 26080313
Authors: Michael A MA. Skeide, Holger H. Kirsten, Indra I. Kraft, Gesa G. Schaadt, Bent B. Müller, Nicole N. Neef, Jens J. Brauer, Arndt A. Wilcke, Frank F. Emmrich, Johannes J. Boltze, Angela D AD. Friederici
Abstract: Phonological awareness is the best-validated predictor of reading and spelling skill and therefore highly relevant for developmental dyslexia. Prior imaging genetics studies link several dyslexia risk genes to either brain-functional or brain-structural factors of phonological deficits. However, coherent evidence for genetic associations with both functional and structural neural phenotypes underlying variation in phonological awareness has not yet been provided. Here we demonstrate that rs11100040, a reported modifier of SLC2A3, is related to the functional connectivity of left fronto-temporal phonological processing areas at resting state in a sample of 9- to 12-year-old children. Furthermore, we provide evidence that rs11100040 is related to the fractional anisotropy of the arcuate fasciculus, which forms the structural connection between these areas. This structural connectivity phenotype is associated with phonological awareness, which is in turn associated with the individual retrospective risk scores in an early dyslexia screening as well as to spelling. These results suggest a link between a dyslexia risk genotype and a functional as well as a structural neural phenotype, which is associated with a phonological awareness phenotype. The present study goes beyond previous work by integrating genetic, brain-functional and brain-structural aspects of phonological awareness within a single approach. These combined findings might be another step towards a multimodal biomarker for developmental dyslexia.


Title #109: When gaze opens the channel for communication: Integrative role of IFG and MPFC.
PMID: 26080312
Authors: Andrea A. Cavallo, Ovidiu O. Lungu, Cristina C. Becchio, Caterina C. Ansuini, Aldo A. Rustichini, Luciano L. Fadiga
Abstract: Recent advances in the field of cognitive neuroscience have revealed that direct gaze modulates activity in cortical and subcortical key regions of the 'social brain network', including the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and the anterior rostral medial prefrontal cortex (arMPFC). However, very little is known about how direct gaze is processed during live interaction with a real partner. Here, for the first time we used an experimental setup allowing the participant inside an MRI scanner to interact face-to-face with a partner located in the scanner room. Depending on condition, the participant and the partner were instructed either to look at each other in the eyes or to direct their gaze away from the other. As control conditions, participants gazed at their own eyes, reflected in a mirror, or gazed at a picture of the partner's eyes. Results revealed that direct gaze by the partner was associated with activity in areas involved in production and comprehension of language and action, including the IFG, the premotor cortex (PM), and the supplementary motor area (SMA). Activations in these areas were observed regardless of the participant's gaze behavior. In contrast, increased activity in arMPFC, an area involved in inference of other mental states during social interaction and communication, was only observed when the participant reciprocated the partner's direct gaze so as to establish mutual gaze. Psychophysiological interaction (PPI) analysis revealed effective connectivity between the IFG and the arMPFC during mutual gaze. This suggests that, within a larger network concerned with the processing of social gaze, mutual gaze with a real partner is established by an increased coupling between areas involved in the detection of communicative intentions, language, and social interaction.


Title #110: Parallel Processing of Somatosensory Information: Evidence from Dynamic Causal Modeling of MEG Data.
PMID: 26080311
Authors: Carsten M CM. Klingner, Stefan S. Brodoehl, Ralf R. Huonker, Theresa T. Götz, Lydia L. Baumann, Otto W OW. Witte
Abstract: The advent of methods to investigate network dynamics has led to discussion of whether somatosensory inputs are processed in serial or in parallel. Both hypotheses are supported by DCM analyses of fMRI studies. In the present study, we revisited this controversy using DCM on magnetoencephalographic (MEG) data during somatosensory stimulation. Bayesian model comparison was used to allow for direct inference on the processing stream. Additionally we varied the duration of the time-window of analyzed data after the somatosensory stimulus. This approach allowed us to explore time dependent changes in the processing stream of somatosensory information and to evaluate the consistency of results. We found that models favoring a parallel processing route best describe neural activities elicited by somatosensory stimuli. This result was consistent for different time-windows. Although it is assumed that the majority of somatosensory information is delivered to the SI, the current results indicate that at least a small part of somatosensory information is delivered in parallel to the SII. These findings emphasize the importance of data analysis with high temporal resolution.


Title #111: Friends, not foes: magnetoencephalography as a tool to uncover brain dynamics during transcranial alternating current stimulation.
PMID: 26080310
Authors: Toralf T. Neuling, Philipp P. Ruhnau, Marco M. Fuscà, Gianpaolo G. Demarchi, Christoph S CS. Herrmann, Nathan N. Weisz
Abstract: Brain oscillations are supposedly crucial for normal cognitive functioning and alterations are associated with cognitive dysfunctions. To demonstrate their causal role on behavior, entrainment approaches in particular aim at driving endogenous oscillations via rhythmic stimulation. Within this context, transcranial electrical stimulation, especially transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS), has received renewed attention. This is likely due to the possibility of defining oscillatory stimulation properties precisely. Also, measurements comparing pre-tACS with post-tACS electroencephalography (EEG) have shown impressive modulations. However, the period during tACS has remained a blackbox until now, due to the enormous stimulation artifact. By means of application of beamforming to magnetoencephalography (MEG) data, we successfully recovered modulations of the amplitude of brain oscillations during weak and strong tACS. Additionally, we demonstrate that also evoked responses to visual and auditory stimuli can be recovered during tACS. The main contribution of the present study is to provide critical evidence that during ongoing tACS, subtle modulations of oscillatory brain activity can be reconstructed even at the stimulation frequency. Future tACS experiments will be able to deliver direct physiological insights in order to further the understanding of the contribution of brain oscillations to cognition and behavior.


Title #112: Short-term exposure to benzo[a]pyrene disrupts reproductive endocrine status in the swimming crab Portunus trituberculatus.
PMID: 26080309
Authors: Jianmin J. Wen, Luqing L. Pan
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) on reproductive endocrine disruption and explore the preliminary mechanisms in crustaceans. In this study, sexually mature female Portunus trituberculatus were exposed to 0, 0.1, 0.5 and 2.5μg/L B[a]P for 10days. The following were investigated: (1) Gonadosomatic Index (GSI) and oocyte diameter, (2) steroid concentrations in ovary and haemolymph, and (3) mRNA levels of genes involved in sex steroid synthesis (3β-HSD,17β-HSD) or reproduction (estrogen receptor (ER), OUT (Ovarian tumor gene) domain containing ubiquitin aldehyde-binding protein 1 (OTUB1), vitellogenin (VTG),vasa). B[a]P exposure caused significant reductions in the GSI and oocyte diameter in the crabs. Furthermore, 17β-estradiol (E2), testosterone (T) and progesterone (P) levels were inhibited significantly while 3β-HSD and 17β-HSD mRNA expressions were also decreased in a dose-dependent manner at day 10, which suggests that B[a]P can disrupt sex steroid levels through steroid synthesis pathways. In addition, high levels of B[a]P activated transcription of OTUB1 while suppressed ER and VTG expression, which indicates that exposure to waterborne B[a]P could interfere with ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and subsequently affect ER and ER-mediated gene expression. We also observed a reduction in vasa gene expression reflecting the negative effect of B[a]P on oocyte development in the molecular level. This study is the first to demonstrate in vivo B[a]P toxicity in the reproductive endocrine system of female P. trituberculatus and provided a scientific basis of the decline in crustacean populations.


Title #113: Splanchnic Vein Thrombosis.
PMID: 26080307
Authors: Dominique D. Valla
Abstract: Splanchnic vein thrombosis includes thrombosis of the hepatic venous system (Budd-Chiari syndrome) and thrombosis of the portal venous system. Both conditions share uncommon prothrombotic disorders as causal factors, among which myeloproliferative neoplasms rank first. Budd-Chiari syndrome presents with acute or chronic, asymptomatic or severe liver disease. Diagnosis depends on noninvasive imaging of the obstructed hepatic venous outflow tract. A spontaneously fatal course can be prevented by a stepwise approach: (1) anticoagulation therapy, specific therapy for underlying disease, and medical or endoscopic management of liver-related complications, (2) angioplasty/stenting in a second step, and (3) eventually the insertion of transjugular intrahepatic stent shunt or liver transplantation. Recent portal vein thrombosis mostly jeopardizes the gut. Early anticoagulation prevents thrombus extension but is incompletely successful in achieving recanalization. Chronic portal vein thrombosis is complicated by bleeding related to portal hypertension, which can be prevented by usual pharmacological and endoscopic means. The prevention of recurrent thrombosis is achieved by anticoagulation therapy the impact of which on the risk of bleeding remains unclear. Portal vein thrombosis in patients with cirrhosis is likely neither a direct consequence of nor a direct cause for liver disease progression. Therefore, the indications and effects of anticoagulation therapy for portal vein thrombosis in patients with cirrhosis remain uncertain.


Title #114: Liver Disease and Hemostatic (Dys)function.
PMID: 26080306
Authors: Armando A. Tripodi
Abstract: Cirrhosis presents with decreased procoagulant factors as a consequence of the impaired synthetic capacity of the liver. This was taken as evidence to explain the abnormalities of the coagulation tests prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and the bleeding events that occur in these patients. It was for long time (and probably is still) common practice to test patients with the PT and to treat those with predefined (but arbitrary) cutoff values with plasma or prohemostatic agents to prevent or stop bleeding. However, anticoagulant factors that contrast the procoagulants are also decreased in cirrhosis. It was therefore postulated that the coagulation balance (i.e., the net result between the action of pro- and anticoagulants) is somewhat rebalanced. Subsequent studies supported this view showing that plasma from cirrhotic patients generates normal amounts of thrombin. In addition, primary hemostasis (i.e., platelet-vessel wall interaction) is rebalanced notwithstanding cirrhosis present with thrombocytopenia. It was shown that increased levels of the adhesive protein von Willebrand factor (a typical feature of cirrhosis) compensate for the low number (function) of platelets. The earlier considerations have been instrumental to help dismantle the old paradigms of cirrhosis as the epitome of the acquired hemorrhagic coagulopathies and the traditional coagulation tests PT and aPTT as suitable predictors of bleeding risk. The demise of the old paradigms and the rise of the new one may have important practical implications for the management of patients with cirrhosis and will be discussed in this chapter.


Title #115: Management of Bleeding and Thrombosis in Critically Ill Patients with Liver Disease.
PMID: 26080305
Authors: Lara N LN. Roberts, William W. Bernal
Abstract: Bleeding frequently complicates end-stage chronic liver disease, and may follow procedures which are required for effective care of patients with liver failure. Thrombosis is increasingly recognized as common, important, and potentially preventable. Standard laboratory tests may not be useful in predicting bleeding or thrombotic risk or guiding therapy, and functional testing serves a more useful role. A state of rebalanced hemostasis exists in many patients, with hypocoagulability present only in a minority. Approaches to management are poorly supported by high-quality evidence; in this review, a practical pragmatic approach to care and minimization of procedure-related risk is discussed. General measures include the correction of systemic factors that may affect coagulation status, prevention and treatment of infection, and individualized coagulation support therapies for specific clinical situations and procedures.


Title #116: Classical Notions of Coagulation Revisited in Relation with Blood Losses, Transfusion Rate for 700 Consecutive Liver Transplantations.
PMID: 26080304
Authors: Luc L. Massicotte, Lynda L. Thibeault, André A. Roy
Abstract: During the last decade, improved surgical and anesthetic management, such as better understanding of coagulation defects and the use of the phlebotomy, has reduced intraoperative blood product transfusions during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). The goal of this study was to look at the impact of initial conventional coagulation tests on blood loss and blood product requirement and to evaluate the role of the phlebotomy during liver transplantations. A total of 700 consecutive OLTs were studied. The group of patients was split into two according to the median of starting international normalized ratio to study blood losses and transfusion rate. Logistic regression was used to determine the main predictors of blood loss, intraoperative blood transfusion, and survival. There was no intergroup difference for demographic characteristics. The mean blood loss was 1,184 mL with a median of 920 mL. Overall, 77.4% of the patients did not receive any blood product and the mean transfusion rate of red blood cells (RBCs) was 0.5 ± 1.4 units per patient. Severity of recipients' disease did not correlate with blood loss or transfusion rate. Starting hemoglobin value was the only biochemical variable linked to RBC transfusions. Phlebotomy was linked to decrease in blood loss, RBC transfusions, and increased survival rate. It is concluded that bleeding did not correlate with traditional coagulation defects or the severity of recipient's disease. Preemptive phlebotomy was linked to a decreased blood loss, a decreased transfusion rate, and an increased 1-year survival rate.


Title #117: Risk Factors, Diagnosis, Management, and Outcome of Splanchnic Vein Thrombosis: A Retrospective Analysis.
PMID: 26080303
Authors: Benjamin A BA. Derman, Hau C HC. Kwaan
Abstract: Objectives This study aims to determine the risk factors, diagnostic methods employed, treatment modalities, and outcome in patients with splanchnic vein thrombosis (SVT). Methods A retrospective chart review of patients, age 18 to 90 years, diagnosed with SVT at a single institution from January 1, 2010 to November 10, 2012. They were grouped as portal vein thrombosis (PVT)-including those combined with splenic vein thrombosis (SPVT) or mesenteric vein thrombosis (MVT)-and Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS). Results Overall 246 SVT patients were identified, including 225 PVT and 21 BCS. Risk factors were liver disease, upper abdominal (regional) cancer and surgery, pancreatitis, and hereditary thrombophilia. The most common symptom was abdominal pain and most patients had abnormal liver function. Among those tested, the JAK2 V617F mutation was present in only 20% of the patients with PVT and 14% of the patients with BCS. Most patients were diagnosed by computed tomography. Anticoagulants were given to 30% of the patients with PVT and to 60% of the patients with BCS, with recurrence of SVT in 15% of the patients with PVT and 24% of the patients with BCS, regardless of anticoagulation. Conclusion As compared with published literature on SVT, we found a higher incidence of regional cancer and surgery and a lower incidence of the JAK2 V617F mutation.


Title #118: 4D PET Iterative Deconvolution with Spatiotemporal Regularization for Quantitative Dynamic PET Imaging.
PMID: 26080302
Authors: Anthonin A. Reilhac, Arnaud A. Charil, Catriona C. Wimberley, Georgios G. Angelis, Hasar H. Hamze, Paul P. Callaghan, Marie-Paule MP. Garcia, Frederic F. Boisson, Will W. Ryder, Steven R SR. Meikle, Marie-Claude MC. Gregoire
Abstract: Quantitative measurements in dynamic PET imaging are usually limited by the poor counting statistics particularly in short dynamic frames and by the low spatial resolution of the detection system, resulting in partial volume effects (PVEs). In this work, we present a fast and easy to implement method for the restoration of dynamic PET images that have suffered from both PVE and noise degradation. It is based on a weighted least squares iterative deconvolution approach of the dynamic PET image with spatial and temporal regularization. Using simulated dynamic [(11)C]Raclopride PET data with controlled biological variations in the striata between scans, we showed that the restoration method provides images which exhibit less noise and better contrast between emitting structures than the original images. In addition, the method is able to recover the true time activity curve in the striata region with an error below 3% while it was underestimated by more than 20% without correction. As a result, the method improves the accuracy and reduces the variability of the kinetic parameter estimates calculated from the corrected images. More importantly it increases the accuracy (from less than 66% to more than 95%) of measured biological variations as well as their statistical detectivity.


Title #119: Self-Healing, Expansion-Contraction, and Shape-Memory Properties of a Preorganized Supramolecular Hydrogel through Host-Guest Interactions.
PMID: 26080301
Authors: Kohei K. Miyamae, Masaki M. Nakahata, Yoshinori Y. Takashima, Akira A. Harada
Abstract: Supramolecular materials cross-linked between polymer chains by noncovalent bonds have the potential to provide dynamic functions that are not produced by covalently cross-linked polymeric materials. We focused on the formation of supramolecular polymeric materials through host-guest interactions: a powerful method for the creation of nonconventional materials. We employed two different kinds of host-guest inclusion complexes of β-cyclodextrin (βCD) with adamantane (Ad) and ferrocene (Fc) to bind polymers together to form a supramolecular hydrogel (βCD-Ad-Fc gel). The βCD-Ad-Fc gel showed self-healing ability when damaged and responded to redox stimuli by expansion or contraction. Moreover, the βCD-Ad-Fc gel showed a redox-responsive shape-morphing effect. We thus succeeded in deriving three functions from the introduction of two kinds of functional units into a supramolecular material.


Title #120: Should WBC scan be replaced by 18F-FDG PET-CT in the diagnosis of prosthetic vascular graft infection?
PMID: 26080300
Authors: Jean-Baptiste JB. Pinaquy, Xavier X. Berard, Laurent L. Stecken, Ghoufrane G. Tlili, Fatima F. M'zali, Laurence L. Bordenave, Sabine S. Pereyre, Stéphane S. Mayeux, Charles C. Cazanave
Abstract: Diagnosis of prosthetic vascular graft infection (PVGI) is a clinical challenge requiring accurate diagnostic methods for their optimal management.


Title #121: TEVAR For Blunt Thoracic Aortic Injuries In Complex Aortic Arch Vessels Anatomies.
PMID: 26080299
Authors: Gabriele G. Piffaretti, Gianpaolo G. Carrafiello, Anna Maria AM. Ierardi, Giovanni G. Mariscalco, Edoardo E. Macchi, Patrizio P. Castelli, Matteo M. Tozzi, Marco M. Franchin
Abstract: To report the use of thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) in blunt thoracic aortic injuries (BTAIs) presenting with complex anatomies of the aortic arch vessels.Two patients were admitted to our hospital for the management of BTAI. Anomalies were as follow: aberrant right subclavian artery (n = 1), and right-sided aortic arch with five vessels anatomy variant (n = 1). TEVAR was accomplished using parallel graft with periscope configuration in the patient with the aberrant right subclavian artery. At 12 months follow-up, computed tomography-angiographies confirmed the exclusion of the BTAI, the stability of the endograft, the resolution of the pseudoaneurysm and the patency of the parallel endograft. Aortic arch vessels variants and anomalies are not rare, and should be recognized and studied precisely to plan the most appropriate operative treatment. TEVAR proved to be effective even in complex anatomies.


Title #122: Using technology to enhance nurse practitioner student engagement.
PMID: 26080297
Authors: Annette A. Carley
Abstract: Active learning strategies applied to nursing education can enhance student understanding, stimulate inquiry, and encourage critical thinking. Effectively applied technology can facilitate active learning processes and engage learners in their process of learning. This article will describe some technology-based strategies to support engagement in nurse practitioner education.


Title #123: Prenatal depression: Early intervention.
PMID: 26080296
Authors: Cheryl A CA. Anderson, Carol C. Lieser
Abstract: Frequently undiagnosed and untreated, prenatal depression affects approximately one in four childbearing women. Screening and appropriate management is essential to prevent adverse consequences to both the woman and her unborn infant. Early conversations between the woman and her nurse practitioner are essential to making medical management decisions.


Title #124: Pharyngitis: soothing the sore throat.
PMID: 26080293
Authors: Susan D SD. Ruppert, Vaunette P VP. Fay
Abstract: Sore throat is a common presentation in primary care. Accurate identification of cause is important for appropriate treatment. Clinical scoring systems and diagnostic tests are recommended to identify group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus, which warrants guideline-driven therapy. The article explores causes, diagnosis, management, and possible complications of pharyngitis.


Title #125: HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders: A review for NPs.
PMID: 26080290
Authors: Elizabeth E. Simoes, J Daniel JD. Justino
Abstract: This review discusses HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders. Practical screening methods are needed for the nurse practitioner to detect neurocognitive impairment in HIV-infected patients.


Title #126: Alterations in the mitochondrial responses to PENAO as a mechanism of resistance in ovarian cancer cells.
PMID: 26080289
Authors: Stéphanie S. Decollogne, Swapna S. Joshi, Sylvia A SA. Chung, Peter P PP. Luk, Reichelle X RX. Yeo, Sheri S. Nixdorf, André A. Fedier, Viola V. Heinzelmann-Schwarz, Philip J PJ. Hogg, Pierre J PJ. Dilda
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to test PENAO, a promising new organoarsenical that is in phase 1 testing in patients with solid tumors, on a range of ovarian cancer cell lines with different histotypes, and to understand the molecular basis of drug resistance exhibited by the endometrioid ovarian cancer cell line, SKOV-3.


Title #127: Why Have Ovarian Cancer Mortality Rates Declined? Part II. Case-fatality.
PMID: 26080288
Authors: Victoria V. Sopik, Javaid J. Iqbal, Barry B. Rosen, Steven A SA. Narod
Abstract: In the United States, the age-adjusted mortality rate from ovarian cancer declined by 8% from 1975 to 1991 and by 18% from 1992 to 2011. A decline in the incidence rate of ovarian cancer paralleled the decline in mortality (described in Part I). The decline in mortality might also be due to a reduced proportion of ovarian cancer patients who die from their cancer (case-fatality). Here, we examine rates of ovarian cancer case-fatality from the Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) registry database, and we consider to what extent advances in treatment also contribute to the observed decline in mortality. From 1973 to 1999, the five-year case-fatality rate for women with ovarian cancer fell by 7.5%, whereas the 12-year case-fatality rate fell by only 1.2%. The declines in five-year case-fatality corresponded in time with the introduction and expansion in use of cis-platinum and paclitaxel in clinical practice. However, modest declines in 12-year case-fatality indicate that the introduction of chemotherapy has not contributed to the decline in mortality. Developments in the last two decades include targeted therapies, aggressive surgical techniques, the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and intraperitoneal chemotherapy. The impact of these treatment modalities on ovarian cancer mortality still needs to be evaluated.


Title #128: Why Have Ovarian Cancer Mortality Rates Declined? Part I. Incidence.
PMID: 26080287
Authors: Victoria V. Sopik, Javaid J. Iqbal, Barry B. Rosen, Steven A SA. Narod
Abstract: The age-adjusted mortality rate from ovarian cancer in the United States has declined over the past several decades. The decline in mortality might be the consequence of a reduced number of cases (incidence) or a reduction in the proportion of patients who die from their cancer (case-fatality). In Part I of this three-part series, we examine rates of ovarian cancer incidence and mortality from the Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) registry database and we explore to what extent the observed decline in mortality can be explained by a downward shift in the stage distribution of ovarian cancer (i.e. due to early detection) or by fewer cases of ovarian cancer (i.e. due to a change in risk factors). The proportion of localized ovarian cancers did not increase, suggesting that a stage-shift did not contribute to the decline in mortality. The observed decline in mortality paralleled a decline in incidence. The trends in ovarian cancer incidence coincided with temporal changes in the exposure of women from different birth cohorts to various reproductive risk factors, in particular, to changes in the use of the oral contraceptive pill and to declining parity. Based on recent changes in risk factor propensity, we predict the trend of the declining age-adjusted incidence rate of ovarian cancer in the United States will reverse and rates will increase in coming years.


Title #129: Dopamine modulation of rod pathway signaling by suppression of GABAc feedback to rod-driven depolarizing bipolar cells.
PMID: 26080286
Authors: Benjamin J BJ. Smith, Patrice D PD. Côté, François F. Tremblay
Abstract: Reducing signal gain in the highly sensitive rod pathway prevents saturation as background light levels increase, allowing the dark-adapted retina to encode stimuli over a range of background luminances. Dopamine release is increased during light adaptation and is generally accepted to suppress rod signaling in light-adapted retinas. However, recent research has suggested that dopamine, acting through D1 receptors, could additionally produce a sensitization of the rod pathway in dim light conditions via GABAc receptors. Here, we evaluate the overall activity of the depolarizing bipolar cell population (DBCs) in vivo to ensure the integrity of long-distance network interactions by quantifying the b-wave of the electroretinogram. We show that dopamine, acting through D1 receptors, reduces the amplitude and sensitivity of rod-driven DBCs during light adaptation by suppressing GABAA R-mediated serial inhibition onto rod DBC GABAC Rs. Block of D1 receptors does not suppress rod-driven DBC sensitivity when GABAA -mediated serial inhibition is blocked by gabazine, suggesting that the reduction in rod-driven DBC sensitivity in the absence of D1 receptors is due to disinhibition of serial inhibitory GABAergic circuitry rather than a direct facilitatory effect on GABA release onto rod-driven DBC GABAC receptors. Finally, the large population of GABAergic A17 wide-field amacrine cells known to maintain reciprocal inhibition with rod DBCs could be excluded from the proposed disinhibitory circuit after treatment with 5,7- dihydroxytryptamine. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.


Title #130: Non-cardiovascular comorbidity, severity and prognosis in non-selected heart failure populations: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
PMID: 26080284
Authors: C A CA. Rushton, D K DK. Satchithananda, P W PW. Jones, U T UT. Kadam
Abstract: Non-cardiovascular comorbidities are recognised as independent prognostic factors in selected heart failure (HF) populations, but the evidence on non-selected HF and how comorbid disease severity and change impacts on outcomes has not been synthesised. We identified primary HF comorbidity follow-up studies to compare the impact of non-cardiovascular comorbidity, severity and change on the outcomes of quality of life, all-cause hospital admissions and all-cause mortality.


Title #131: Statins and the risk of dementia in patients with atrial fibrillation: A nationwide population-based cohort study.
PMID: 26080283
Authors: Tze-Fan TF. Chao, Chia-Jen CJ. Liu, Su-Jung SJ. Chen, Kang-Ling KL. Wang, Yenn-Jiang YJ. Lin, Shih-Lin SL. Chang, Li-Wei LW. Lo, Yu-Feng YF. Hu, Ta-Chuan TC. Tuan, Tzeng-Ji TJ. Chen, Gregory Y H GY. Lip, Chern-En CE. Chiang, Shih-Ann SA. Chen
Abstract: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with cognitive decline and may contribute to an increased risk of dementia. The goal of the present study was to investigate whether statin use prevented non-vascular dementia in subjects with AF.


Title #132: Independent associations between resistin and left ventricular mass and myocardial dysfunction in a community sample with prevalent obesity.
PMID: 26080281
Authors: Glenda G. Norman, Gavin R GR. Norton, Carlos D CD. Libhaber, Frederic F. Michel, Olebogeng H I OH. Majane, Aletta M E AM. Millen, Pinhas P. Sareli, Angela J AJ. Woodiwiss
Abstract: Although the adipokine resistin may play a role in heart failure, the mechanisms of this effect are uncertain. Relations with left ventricular mass (LVM) and function are uncertain.


Title #133: Ventricular function and cardiac reserve in contemporary Fontan patients.
PMID: 26080280
Authors: S S M SS. Bossers, L. L. Kapusta, I M IM. Kuipers, G. G. van Iperen, A. A. Moelker, L J M LJ. Kroft, S. S. Romeih, Y. Y. de Rijke, A D J AD. Ten Harkel, W A WA. Helbing
Abstract: Total cavopulmonary connection (TCPC) has been the preferred treatment for patients with univentricular hearts. Current TCPC-techniques are the intra-atrial lateral tunnel (ILT) and the extracardiac conduit (ECC). We aimed to determine ventricular function during rest and stress, and to compare results for both techniques and for left (LV) versus right ventricular (RV) dominance.


Title #134: Complications in the setting of percutaneous atrial fibrillation ablation using radiofrequency and cryoballoon techniques: A single-center study in a large cohort of patients.
PMID: 26080278
Authors: Giacomo G. Mugnai, Ghazala G. Irfan, Carlo C. de Asmundis, Giuseppe G. Ciconte, Yukio Y. Saitoh, Burak B. Hunuk, Vedran V. Velagic, Erwin E. Stroker, Paolo P. Rossi, Lucio L. Capulzini, Pedro P. Brugada, Gian-Battista GB. Chierchia
Abstract: The aim of this study was to assess the overall incidence of complications in a large sample of consecutive patients having undergone pulmonary vein (PV) isolation, evaluating also the rate of complications in radiofrequency (RF) and cryoballoon (CB) ablation technologies.


Title #135: Synthetic protein lipidation.
PMID: 26080277
Authors: Rami N RN. Hannoush
Abstract: Fatty acylation of proteins is a versatile co-translational or post-translational modification that plays a key role in human physiology and disease. It is tightly controlled by a set of enzymes which catalyze the covalent attachment of fatty acids onto protein substrates, resulting in regulation of protein function, stability and interaction with other proteins or membranes. Some fatty acyltransferases have emerged to function as tumor suppressors or oncogenes, while others contribute to pathogenesis and neurodegenerative disorders. Yet our understanding of the molecular mechanism of action of these enzymes and their substrate selectivity is still in its infancy. The use of synthetic chemistry combined with state-of-the-art techniques in cell biology is enabling systematic investigation of protein fatty acylation and its dynamics. This review highlights synthetic probes for detecting and modulating protein fatty acylation, such as palmitoylation and myristoylation, and it provides an outlook on the potential influence chemical biology can have in shaping the future of the field of protein fatty acylation.


Title #136: Inhomogeneous field in cavities of zero index metamaterials.
PMID: 26080276
Authors: Yangyang Y. Fu, Yadong Y. Xu, Huangyang H. Chen
Abstract: In common media, electromagnetic wave always possesses a fluctuant field variation, analogous to an undulant surface of sea. While electromagnetic wave in the media with zero index metamaterials (ZIMs), whose refractive indices are near zero, homogeneous or constant field distribution will emerge, resembling a tranquil surface of lake. Such impression almost could be found in all previous literatures related to ZIMs. However, in this letter, we theoretically and numerically find that, in a cavity structure with ZIMs, when higher order modes (e.g., dipole modes) are excited inside cavity, inhomogeneous field could take place in ZIMs. Such a finding challenges the common perception in ZIMs: It is generally considered that homogeneous or constant field is generated in ZIMs. In addition, the proposed cavity structure herein could be used to manipulate radiation of light, such as enhancing or suppressing radiation, controlling radiation pattern and achieving isotropic or directive radiation, thereby potential applications are expected. These effects are well confirmed by numerical simulations.


Title #137: Triton X-114 cloud point extraction to sub-fractionate blood plasma proteins for two-dimensional gel electrophoresis.
PMID: 26080275
Authors: Flemming F. Jessen, Tune T. Wulff
Abstract: A simple and reproducible procedure for enrichment of a plasma protein sub-fraction suitable for two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2DE) was developed, using a Triton X-114 based cloud point extraction (CPE). Appropriate conditions for such a CPE procedure was found by SDS-PAGE to be a plasma protein concentration of about 10 mg/ml in 3% (w/v) Triton X-114. 2DE of proteins obtained by CPE of 400 μl of human plasma revealed about 200 spots constituting a spot pattern very different from the pattern of total plasma. The CPE procedure as such only contributed limited to technical variation. Identification of about 60 spots, representing only 22 proteins, revealed that several proteins in the obtained sub-fraction were present in more isoforms or modifications. Among these were Apolipoproteins (A-1, D, E, L1 and M), Haptoglobin-related protein, Phosphatidylcholine-sterol acyltransferese, Serum amyloid A and Serum paraoxonase/arylesterase 1, which are proteins of a hydrophobic nature, as they in plasma relate to lipoprotein particles. Thus, Triton X-114 based CPE is a simple plasma pre-fractionation tool, attractive for detailed 2DE studies of hydrophobic plasma proteins and their isoforms or modifications.


Title #138: Observational Study of Surgical Treatment of Sagittal Fractures of Mandibular Condyle.
PMID: 26080265
Authors: Chang-Kui CK. Liu, Cai-Xia CX. Jing, Wei W. Li, Jianzhong J. Wang, Hongzhi H. Zhou, Min M. Hu, Kai-Jin KJ. Hu
Abstract: This study was conducted to investigate the complications that occur after surgical treatment of sagittal fracture of the mandibular condyle (SFMC).


Title #139: Extended Free Forearm Flap for Treatment of Temporomandibular Joint Pseudoankylosis.
PMID: 26080264
Authors: Ming M. Li, Hong-Bing HB. Jiang, Zhen-Jiang ZJ. Tao, Yu-Nong YN. Wu
Abstract: Pseudoankylosis of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) is characterized by limited mouth opening and impaired mandibular mobility induced by pathologic factors outside the joint itself, usually leading to compromised speech, swallowing, and breath functions. Multiple surgical approaches or reconstructive procedures have been proposed to resolve the joint pseudoankylosis and restore the mandibular movement for these affected patients. Free forearm flap has been widely used in reconstruction for various congenital or acquired defects or deformities; however, this flap has been rarely employed for TMJ pseudoankylosis in the literature. Here, the authors reported that noma-induced TMJ pseudoankylosis was diagnosed and successfully treated by extended free forearm flap with length over 10 cm in a Chinese female patient.


Title #140: Modification of the Labbé Procedure: Integration of the Deep Temporalis Fascia Turnover Flap.
PMID: 26080263
Authors: Chad M CM. Teven, Jonathan J. Bank, Lawrence J LJ. Gottlieb, Russell R RR. Reid
Abstract: Modification of the lengthening temporalis myoplasty for reanimation of facial paralysis is presented. A patient experienced traumatic laceration of the left facial nerve resulting in left hemifacial paralysis. Multiple attempts at nerve repair were unsuccessful. For smile restoration, a Labbé procedure was performed. Because of inadequate length, the temporalis tendon could not be directly secured to the modiolus. Therefore, an inferiorly based temporalis fascia flap was recruited from the deep temporal fascia and reflected inferiorly to provide additional length by which the tendon could be secured to the modiolus. This technique provided immediate smile restoration and required no additional donor site.


